[Intro <--- ](intro.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 2](2.md)

# Розділ 1. Імітаційне моделювання в реальному часі з використанням гібридних моделей

Roy Crosbie

- [1.1](1_1.md)    Introduction: Discrete and Continuous Models

  - 1.1.1    Discrete Models
  - 1.1.2    Continuous Models

- [1.2](1_2.md)     Discrete Modeling

  - 1.2.1    Queuing Models
  - 1.2.2    Digital System Models
  - 1.2.3    DEVS Formalism
  - 1.2.4    Time Management for Discrete Simulation
  - 1.2.5    Software for Discrete Simulation
  - 1.2.6    Example of a Discrete-Event Simulation

- [1.3](1_3.md)     Continuous Modeling

  - 1.3.1    Nature of Continuous Models
  - 1.3.2    Time Management for Continuous Simulations
    - 1.3.2.1    Types of Numerical Integration Algorithm
    - 1.3.2.2    Fixed versus Variable Step
    - 1.3.2.3    Explicit versus Implicit
    - 1.3.2.4    Single-Step versus Multistep
    - 1.3.2.5    Variable-Order Algorithms and Stiff Systems
    - 1.3.2.6    Difference Equations
  - 1.3.3    Software for Continuous Simulation
  - 1.3.4    Example of a Continuous Simulation

- [1.4](1_4.md)     Hybrid Models

  - 1.4.1    Time Management for Hybrid Simulations
  - 1.4.2    Software for Hybrid Simulations
  - 1.4.3    Examples of Hybrid Simulations
    - 1.4.3.1    Continuous Model with a Discrete Element
    - 1.4.3.2    Example of a Discrete-Based Hybrid Simulation
    - 1.4.3.3    Balanced Hybrid Simulation

- [1.5](1_5.md)     Real-Time Hybrid Simulation

  - 1.5.1    Timing Issues in Real-Time Hybrid Simulation
  - 1.5.2    High-Speed Real-Time Hybrid Simulation
  - 1.1.1    Numerical Integration for High-Speed Real-Time Simulation
  - 1.1.2    HSRT Multirate Simulation.

- [1.6](1_6.md)     Concluding Remarks

  

  ## References

1.  Zeigler, B. P. 1976. *Theory of Modeling and Simulation*. 1st ed. New York: Wiley Interscience.

2.  Wainer, G. A., and P. J. Mosterman, eds. 2011. *Discrete-Event Modeling and Simulation:* *Theory and Applications*. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

3.  Fujimoto, R. M. 2003. “Advanced tutorials: Parallel Simulation: Distributed Simulation Systems.” In *Proceedings of the 2003 Winter Simulation Conference*, edited by S. Chick, P. J. Sánchez, D. Ferrin, and D. J. Morrice, New Orleans, LA, December 7–10, 2003, pp. 124–134.

4.  Olukotun, K., M. Heinrich, and D. Ofelt. 1998. “Digital System Simulation: Methodologies and Examples.” In *Proceedings of 35th Design Automation Conference*, *DAC ’98*, San Francisco, CA, June 15–19, 2011, pp. 658–63.

5.  Zeigler, B. P., and H. S. Sarghoujian. 2003. “Introduction to DEVS Modeling & Simulation with JAVA: Developing Component-based Simulation Models.” [http://www](http://www.acims.arizona.edu/PUBLICATIONS/publications.shtml#devsHLA).

6.  Cellier, F. E., and E. Kofman. 2006. *Continuous System Simulation*. New York: Springer Verlag.

7.  Jefferson, D. et al. 1987. “The Time-Warp Operating System.” In *Proceedings of 11th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles*. New York: ACM.

8.  Birtwistle, G. M., O.-J. Dahl, B. Myhrhaug, and K. Nygaard. 1973. *SIMULA Begin*. Chartwell-Bratt, Bromley, England 1979.

9.  Matloff, N. “Introduction to Discrete-Event Simulation and the SimPy Language,” [http://heather.cs.ucdavis.edu/~matloff/156/PLN/DESimIntro.pdf](http://heather.cs.ucdavis.edu/).

10.  Ralston, A., and P. Rabinowitz. 2001. *A First Course in Numerical Analysis*. 2nd ed. Mineola, NY: Dover Publications.

11.  Klee, H., and R. Allen. 2011. *Simulation of Dynamic Systems with MATLAB and Simulink*. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press Inc.

12.  Gear, C. W. 1962. *Numerical Initial Value Problems in the Numerical Solution of ODEs*. New York: Wiley.

13.  Byrne, G. D., A. C. Hindmarsh, K. R. Jackson, and H. G. Brown. 1977. “A Comparison of Two ODE Codes: GEAR and EPISODE.” *Computers & Chemical Engineering* 1 (2): 133–47.

14.  Clancy J. J., and M. S. Fineberg. 1965. “Digital Simulation Languages: A Critique and a Guide.” In *Proceedings of the November 30–December 1*, *1965, Fall Joint Computer Conference*, 23–6. Montvale, NJ: AFIPS Press.

15.  Brennan R. D., and R. N Linebarger. 1964. “A Survey of Digital Simulation: Digital Analog Simulator Programs.” *SIMULATION* 3 (6): 22–36.

16.  SCi Software Committee. 1967. “The SCi Continuous System Simulation Language (CSSL).” *SIMULATION* 9 (6): 281–303.

17.  Goebel, R., R. G. Sanfelice, and A. R. Teel. 2009. “Hybrid Dynamical Systems.” *IEEE Control Systems Magazine* 29 (2): 28–93.

18.  Cellier, F. E. 1979. *Combined Continuous/Discrete System Simulation by use of Digital Computers*, Doctoral dissertation, ETH Zurich.

19.  Hay, J. L., R. E. Crosbie, and R. I. Chaplin. 1974. “Integration Subroutines for Systems with Discontinuities.” *Computer Journal* 17 (3).

20.  Crosbie, R. E., and J. L. Hay. 1974. “Digital Techniques for the Simulation of Discontinuities.” In *Proceedings of Summer Simulation Conference*, Houston, TX, July 9–11, 1974, pp. 87–91.

21.  Crosbie, R. E., S. Javey, J. L. Hay, and J. G. Pearce. 1985. “ESL—A New Continuous System Simulation Language.” *SIMULATION* 44 (5): 242–46.

22.  Modelica Association. March 2010. “Modelica: A Unified Object-Oriented Language for Physical Systems Modeling: Language Specification, Version 3.2.” <https://www.modelica.org/documents/ModelicaSpec32.pdf>.

23.  MathWorks. September 2009. *Simscape User’s Guide*. Natick, MA: MathWorks.

24.  Bergero, F., and E. Kofman. 2010. “PowerDEVS: A Tool for Hybrid System Modeling and Real-Time Simulation.” *SIMULATION* 87 (1–2): 113–32.

25.  Kofman, E., F. E. Cellier, and G. Migoni. “Continuous System Simulation and Control.” In *Discrete-Event Modeling and Simulation: Theory and Applications*, edited by G. A. Wainer and P. J. Mosterman, 75–107. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

26.  Fayek, A-M. 1987. *Introduction to Combined Discrete-Continuous Simulation Using PC SIMSCRIPT II.5*. La Jolla, CA: CACI.

27.  Crosbie, R.E. August 1993. “Combined Continuous-Discrete Simulation.” ISIM Internal Report ref estecextlabtsk4_fin.001, ISIM International Simulation Ltd, 161 Claremont Rd. Salford M6 8PA, UK.

28.  Kuhl, F., R. Weatherly, and J. Dahmann. 1999. *Creating Computer Simulation Systems: An* *Introduction to the High-Level* *Architecture*. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall PTR.

29.  Moallemi, M., and G. Wainer. 2010. “Designing an Interface for Real-Time and Embedded DEVS.” In *Proceedings of Symposium on Theory of Modeling and Simulation* *(DEVS10)*, Orlando, FL, April 11–15, 2010, SCS.

30.  Cho, S. M., and T. G. Kim. 1998. “Real-Time DEVS Simulation: Concurrent, Time- Selective Execution of Combined RT-DEVS Model and Interactive Environment.” In *Proceedings of 1998 Summer Computer Simulation Conference*, Reno, NV, July 19–22, 1998, SCS. 

31.  Ledin, J., M. Dickens, and J. Sharp. 2003. “Single Modeling Environment for Constructing High-Fidelity Plant and Controller Models.” In *Proceedings of 2003 AIAA Modeling and Simulation Technologies Conference*, Austin, TX, August 21–24, 2003.

32.  MathWorks. *Real-Time Windows Target*™. Natick, MA: MathWorks. [http://www](http://www/.mathworks.com/products/rtwt/)

33.  Isen, F. W. 2009. *DSP for MATLAB and LabVIEW: Synthesis Lectures on Signal Processing*. San Rafael, CA: Morgan and Claypool.

34.  Venne, P., J-N. Paquin, and J. Belanger. “The What, Where and Why of Real-Time Simulation.” [http://www.opal-rt.com/technical-document/what-where-and-why-real-time-](http://www.opal-rt.com/) simulation.

35.  Applied Dynamics International. [http://www.adi.com/products_sim_tar_rtx.htm](http://www.adi.com/).

36.  Forsyth, P., and R. Kuffel. 2007. “Utility Applications of a RTDS Simulator.” In *Proceedings of Power Engineering Conference (IPEC 2007)*, 112–17, December 3–6. Piscataway, NJ: IEEE Press.

37.  Crosbie, R. E., J. J. Zenor, D. Word, and N. G. Hingorani. October–December 2004. “Fast Real-Time DSP Simulations for On-Line Testing of Hardware and Software.” *Modeling & Simulation* 3 (4).

38.  Word, D., J. J. Zenor, and R. Powelson. 2008. “Using FPGAs for Ultra-High-Speed Real- Time Simulation.” In *Proceedings of Conference on Grand Challenges in Modeling and Simulation*, Edinburgh, Scotland, June 16–19, 2008.

39.  Howe, R. M. 1985. “Transfer Function and Characteristic Root Errors for Fixed- Step Integration Algorithms.” *Transactions of the Society for Computer Simulation*, 2 (4): 293–300.

40.  Howe, R. M. 2010. “Improving Accuracy and Speed in Real-Time Simulation of Electric Circuits.” *International Journal of Modeling, Simulation, and Scientific Computing* 1 (1): 47–83.

41.  De Kelper, B., L. A. Dessaint, K. Al-Haddad, and H. Nakra. 2002. “A Comprehensive Approach to Fixed-Step Simulation of Switched Circuits.” *IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics* 17 (2): 216–24.

42.  Bednar, R., and R. E. Crosbie. 2007. “Stability of Multi-Rate Simulation Algorithms.” In *Proceedings of the Summer Computer Simulation Multiconference*, San Diego, CA, July 16–19, 2007, SCS San Diego.

43.  Ogata, K., 1987. *Discrete-Time Control Systems*, State Space Analysis. Englewood Cliffs, NJ*:* Prentice Hall.

44.  Bednar, R., and R. E. Crosbie. 2009. “Solution of Non-Linear Differential Equations Using State-Transition Methods.” In *Proceedings of Conference on Grand Challenges in Modeling and Simulation*, Istanbul, Turkey, July 13–16, 2009, SCS.

45.  Palusinski, O. A. 1985. “Simulation of Dynamic Systems Using Multi-Rate Integration Techniques.” *Transactions of SCS* 2 (4): 257–73.

46.  Zenor, J. J., R. Bednar, and S. Bhalerao. 2008. “Multi-Party, Multi-Rate Simulation of an Unmanned Underwater Vehicle.” In *Proceedings of Conference on Grand Challenges in Modeling and Simulation*, Edinburgh, Scotland, June 16–19, 2008.

47.  Zenor J. J., D. J. Murray-Smith, E. W. McGookin, and R. E. Crosbie. 2009. “Development of a Multi-Rate Simulation Model of an Unmanned Underwater Vehicle for Real-Time Applications.” In *Mathmod Conference*, Vienna, Austria, February 11–13, 2009.

48. Dougal, R. A. 2005. “Design Tools for Electric Ship Systems.” In *Proceedings of IEEE Electric Ship Technologies Symposium*, Philadelphia, PA, July 25–27, 2005, pp. 8–11.