[9 <--- ](9.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 11](11.md)

# 10. Modeling Multiprocessor Real-Time Systems at Transaction Level

*Giovanni Beltrame, Gabriela* *Nicolescu, and Luca Fossati*

- [10.1](10_1.md)  Introduction 
- [10.2](10_2.md)  Previous Work 
- [10.3](10_3.md)  Proposed Methodology 
  - 10.3.1  System Call Emulation. 
  - 10.3.2  Pthreads as a Real-Time Concurrency Model 
  - 10.3.3  Real-Time Concurrency Manager. 
  - 10.3.4  Interrupt Management 
- [10.4](10_4.md)  Experimental Results 
- [10.5](10_5.md)  Concluding Remarks 

## REFERENCES

1.  Yoo, S., G. Nicolescu, L. Gauthier, and A. A. Jerraya. 2002. “Automatic Generation of Fast Timed Simulation Models for Operating Systems in SoC design.” In *Proceedings of the Conference on Design, Automation and Test in Europe* (DATE ’02), pp. 620–627. IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC.

2.  Wolf. W., 2003. “A Decade of Hardware/Software Codesign.” *Computer* 36(4): 38–43.

3.  Moigne, R. L., O. Pasquier, and J. Calvez. 2004. “A Generic RTOS Model for Real- Time Systems Simulation with SystemC.” In *Proceedings of the Conference on Design, Automation and Test in Europe*, Volume 3 (DATE ’04), Vol. 3, pp. 82–87. IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC.

4.  Huck, E., B. Miramond, and F. Verdier. 2007. “A Modular SystemC RTOS Model for Embedded Services Exploration.” In *First European Workshop on Design and Architectures for Signal and Image* Processing *(DASIP)*, ECSI, Grenoble, France.

5 Gerstlauer, A., H. Yu, and D. Gajski. 2003. “RTOS Modeling for System Level Design.” In *Proceedings of the Conference on Design, Automation and Test in Europe* (DATE ’04), pp. 130–135. IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC.

6.  Posadas, H., J. Adamez, P. Sanchez, E. Villar, and F. Blasco. 2006. “POSIX Modeling in SystemC.” In *ASP-DAC ’06: Proceedings of the 2006 Asia and South Pacific Design Automation Conference*, pp. 485–90. Yokohama, Japan: IEEE Press.

7.  Schirner, G., and R. Domer. 2008. “Introducing Preemptive Scheduling in Abstract RTOS Models Using Result Oriented Modeling.” In *Proceedings of the Conference on Design, Automation and Test in Europe* (DATE ’08). ACM, New York.

8.  He, Z., A. Mok, and C. Peng. 2005. “Timed RTOS Modeling for Embedded System Design.” In *Proceedings of the Real Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium* 448–457. IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC.

9.  Honda, S., T. Wakabayashi, H. Tomiyama, and H. Takada. 2004. “RTOS-Centric Hardware/Software Cosimulator for Embedded System Design.” In *CODES+ISSS ’04: Proceedings of the 2nd IEEE/ACM/IFIP International Conference on Hardware/ Software Codesign and System Synthesis*, pp 158–163. IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC. 

10.  Girodias, B., E. M. Aboulhamid, and G. Nicolescu. 2006. “A Platform for Refinement of OS Services for Embedded Systems.” In *DELTA ’06: Proceedings of the Third IEEE International Workshop on Electronic Design, Test and Applications*, pp. 227–236. IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC.

11.  Beltrame, G., L. Fossati, and D. Sciuto. 2009. “ReSP: A Nonintrusive Transaction-Level Reflective MPSoC Simulation Platform for Design Space Exploration.” *Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, IEEE Transactions on* 28(12): 1857–69.

12.  Foote, B. and R. E. Johnson. 1989. “Reflective Facilities in Smalltalk-80.” *Proceedings OOPSLA ’89, ACM SIGPLAN Notices* 24: 327–35.

13.  Kargahi, M. and A. Movaghar. 2005. “Non-Preemptive Earliest-Deadline-First Scheduling Policy: A Performance Study.” In *MASCOTS ’05: Proceedings of the 13th IEEE International Symposium on Modeling, Analysis, and Simulation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems*, pp. 201–10. IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC.

14.  Buttazzo, G. C. 2005. “Rate Monotonic vs. EDF: Judgment Day.” *Real-Time Systems* 29(1): 5–26.

15.  eCos operating system. http://ecos.sourceware.org/.

16.  Lilliefors, H. 1967. “On the Kolmogorov-Smirnov Test for Normality with Mean and Variance Unknown.” *Journal of the American Statistical Association.* Vol. 62, No. 318 (Jun., 1967), pp. 399–402.