[10 <--- ](10.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 10.2](10_2.md)

## 10.1. INTRODUCTION

Increasingly, large portions of electronic systems are being implemented in software, with the consequence that the software development effort is becoming a dominant factor in the development flow. The problem is aggravated by the strong trend from the “classical” embedded systems toward *real-time* (RT) systems with explicitly concurrent hardware that is more difficult to analyze and to model. In such systems, beyond the correctness of algorithms, early verification of the real-time behavior and timing constraints is essential. Guaranteeing the required properties with explicitly concurrent software and hardware adds a degree of complexity, which combines with the fact that software deployment and testing on target hardware is difficult and time consuming. To gather timing details and to validate the functionality of the overall system as soon as possible in the development process, high level models of the interactions among application, operating system, and hardware platform are necessary. Unfortunately, generally used methodologies suffer from the *code equivalence* problem (as presented in Yoo et al. [1]): the code executed by the virtual system is different from the code executed by the final deployed hardware, especially for code that concerns OS primitives. This may change the overall system behavior, leading to less-than-optimal or incorrect design choices. RT systems further complicate the situation as the correctness of the computation is highly dependent on its timing behavior, which implies a necessity for accurate modeling of scheduling choices, task interactions, and interrupt response times. Moreover, the implementation of critical RTOS parts can be carried out either in software or using hardware accelerators, with major consequences on system cost, behavior, and timing features. In this work, we provide a codesign environment suitable for the development of multiprocessor systems with real-time requirements. The core idea consists in the *transparent emulation* of RTOS primitives on top of a virtual platform described at the transaction level; the implementation guarantees full compatibility with any POSIX-compliant application. Overall, our approach provides fast and accurate simulation results, allowing effective high-level design space exploration (DSE) for multicore RT systems. Our methodology can be applied to various tasks, such as analysis of system responsiveness in the face of different load and of varying frequency of external events, and as exploration of different scheduling policies.

This article is organized as follows: Section 10.2 describes previous research on the subject and Section 10.3 presents how the proposed methodology addresses the identified issues. Finally, Section 10.4 shows the experimental results and Section 10.5 draws some concluding remarks.

[10 <--- ](10.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 10.2](10_2.md)