[10 <--- ](10.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 12](12.md)

# 11. Service-Based Simulation Framework for Performance Estimation of Embedded Systems

*Anders Sejer Tranberg-Hansen* *and Jan Madsen*

- [11.1](11_1.md)    Introduction. 
  - 11.1.1    System-Level Performance Estimation. 
  - 11.1.2    Overview of the Framework. 
  - 11.1.3    Organization of the Chapter. 
- [11.2](11_2.md)    Service Models 
- [11.3](11_3.md)    Service Model Interfaces. 
- [11.4](11_4.md)    Service Requests 
- [11.5](11_5.md)    Service Model Implementations 
  - 11.5.1    Model-of-Computation 
  - 11.5.2    Composition 
- [11.6](11_6.md)    Application Modeling 
- [11.7](11_7.md)    Architecture Modeling 
- [11.8](11_8.md)    System Modeling 
- [11.9](11_9.md)    Simulation Engine 
  - 11.9.1    Discrete Event Simulation. 
  - 11.9.2    Representation of Time 
  - 11.9.3    Simulation 
  - 11.9.4    Service-Based Model-of-Computation for Architecture Modeling 
- [11.10](11_10.md)  Producer–Consumer Example 
- [11.11](11_11.md)  Industrial Case Study. 
  - 11.11.1  Mobile Audio Processing Platform 
  - 11.11.2  Accuracy 
  - 11.11.3  Simulation Speed 
- [11.12](11_12.md)    Conclusion. 

## ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The authors acknowledge the industrial case provided by the DaNES partner Bang & Olufsen ICEpower A/S.

The work presented in this chapter has been supported by DaNES (Danish National Advanced Technology Foundation), ASAM (ARTEMIS JU Grant No 100265), and ArtistDesign (FP7 NoE No 214373).

## REFERENCES

1.  Benini, Luca, Davide Bertozzi, Alessandro Bogliolo, Francesco Menichelli, and Mauro Olivieri. 2005. “Mparm: Exploring the Multi-Processor SoC Design Space with SystemC.” *The Journal of VLSI Signal Processing-Systems for Signal, Image, and Video Technology* 41 (2): 169–82.

2.  Cesario, W. O., D. Lyonnard, G. Nicolescu, Y. Paviot, Sungjoo Yoo, A.A. Jerraya, L. Gauthier, and M. Diaz-Nava. 2002. “Multiprocessor SoC Platforms: A Component- Based Design Approach.” *IEEE Design and Test of Computers* 19 (6): 52–63.

3.  Gao, Lei, K. Karuri, S. Kraemer, R. Leupers, G. Ascheid, and H. Meyr. 2008. “Multiprocessor Performance Estimation Using Hybrid Simulation.” *2008 45th ACM/ IEEE Design Automation Conference*, 325–330. 

4.  Kunzli, S., F. Poletti, L. Benini, and L. Thiele. 2006. “Combining Simulation and Formal Methods for System-Level Performance Analysis.” *Proceedings of the Design Automation & Test in Europe Conference* 1: 1–6.

5.  Mahadevan, Shankar, Kashif Virk, and Jan Madsen. “Arts: A SystemC-Based Framework for Multiprocessor Systems-on-Chip Modelling.” *Design Automation for Embedded Systems* 11 (4): 285–311.

6.  Pimentel, A. D., C. Erbas, and S. Polstra. “A Systematic Approach to Exploring Embedded System Architectures at Multiple Abstraction Levels.” *IEEE Transactions on Computers* 55 (2): 99–112.

7.  Tranberg-Hansen, Anders Sejer, and Jan Madsen. “A Compositional Modelling Framework for Exploring MPSoC Systems.” In *CODES*+*ISSS ’09: Proceedings of the 7th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Hardware/Software Codesign and System* *Synthesis*, 1–10. New York, NY, USA: ACM.

8.  Keutzer, K., A. R. Newton, J. M. Rabaey, and A. Sangiovanni-Vincentelli. 2000. “System-Level Design: Orthogonalization of Concerns and Platform-Based Design.” *IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems* 19 (12): 1523–43.

9.  Balarin, Felice, Massimiliano Chiodo, Paolo Giusto, Harry Hsieh, Attila Jurecska, Luciano Lavagno, Claudio Passerone et al. 1997. *Hardware-Software Co-Design of Embedded Systems: The POLIS Approach*. Norwell, MA, USA: Kluwer Academic Publishers.

10.  Kienhuis, B., E. Deprettere, K. Vissers, and P. Van Der Wolf. 1997. “An Approach for Quantitative Analysis of Application-Specific Dataflow Architectures.” In *ASAP ’97: Proceedings IEEE International Conference on Application-Specific Systems, Architec- tures and Processors*, pp. 338–349.

11.  Cai, L. and D. Gajski. 2003. *Transaction Level Modeling:* *An Overview*. In *CODES+ISSS’03:* *Proceedings of the 1st IEEE/ACM/IFIP international conference on Hardware/software codesign and system synthesis*, pp. 19–24.

12.  Lee, E. A. and A. Sangiovanni-Vincentelli. 1998. “A Framework for Comparing Models of Computation.” *Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, IEEE Transactions on* 17 (12): 1217–29.

13.  Jantsch, Axel. 2003. *Modeling Embedded Systems and SoCs—Concurrency and Time in Models of Computation*. Morgan Kaufmann Burlington, MA: Systems on Silicon.

14.  Cassandras, Christos G. 1993. *Discrete Event Systems: Modeling and Performance Analysis*. Aksen Associates, Inc., Homewood, IL.

15.  Wainer, G. A. and P. J. Mosterman. *Discrete Event Simulation and Modeling: Theory and Applications*. Computational Analysis, Synthesis, and Design Of Dynamic Systems Series. CRC Press, Taylor and Francis Group, 2010.

16.  Tranberg-Hansen, Anders Sejer, and Jan Madsen. 2008. “A Service Based Component Model for Composing and Exploring MPSoC Platforms.” In *ISABEL ’08: Proceedings of the First IEEE International Symposium on Applied Sciences in Bio-Medical and Communication Technologies*, pp. 1–5.

17.  Tranberg-Hansen, Anders Sejer, Jan Madsen, and Bjorn Sand Jensen. A Service Based Estimation Method for MPSoC Performance Modelling. In *Proceedings of the International Symposium on Industrial Embedded Systems*, SIES 2008, pp. 43–50.

18.  Jensen, Kurt. 1992. *Coloured Petri Nets. Basic Concepts, Analysis Methods and Practical Use. Volume 1, Basic Concepts*. Springer-Verlag Germany.

19.  Sun Mircrosystems. Java SE 1.6, 2008. [http://www.java.sun.com](http://www.java.sun.com/).

20.  Eclipse Foundation. Eclipse. http://www.eclipse.org/.

21.  Tranberg-Hansen, Anders Sejer, and Jan Madsen. 2009. “Exploration of a Digital Audio Processing Platform Using a Compositional System Level Performance Estimation Framework.” *2009 IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Embedded Systems*, *SIES ’09*, pp. 54–7.