[11.1 <--- ](11_1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 11.3](11_3.md)

## 11.2. SERVICE MODELS

A service model captures the functional behavior of a component through the notion of services. Services are used to represent the functionality offered by a given com- ponent without making any assumptions about the actual implementation. Concrete examples of services are functions of a software library, arithmetic operations offered by a hardware functional unit, or the instructions offered by a processor depending on the level of abstraction used to model the component.

The functionality offered by a service model, represented as services, can be requested by other service models through requests to the offered services. The detailed operation of a service model, that is, the implementation of the services offered, is hidden to other models. In that sense, a service model can be viewed as a black box component where the services offered are visible but not their implementa- tion. Service models can be described at multiple levels of abstraction and need not be described at the same level to communicate. The clear separation of functionality and implementation through the concept of services implies that there is no distinc- tion between hardware or software components seen from the point of view of the modeling framework. It is the cost associated with each service, which eventually dictates whether a component is modeling a hardware or software component.

A service model is composed of one or more *service model interfaces* and a *ser- vice model implementation* as illustrated in Figure 11.2. Interfaces are used to connect models, allowing models to communicate through the exchange of service requests. In this way, there is a clear separation of how behavior and communication of a com- ponent is described. The service model interfaces provide a uniform way of accessing the services offered and enabling service models to communicate and facilitate struc- tural composition by specifying the sets of services that are offered and are required by the model. It is the active interfaces that specify required services and the pas- sive interfaces that specify the offered services. In this way, structural composition is

 



 

O ered services



Service requests

 

​                                 Passive interface



Service model implementation

Active interface



Required services

 

 

**FIGURE 11.2** The service model basics.





Service requests



**264**                                       Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

dictated by the interfaces that each service model implements and subsequently by the services offered and required. Only models fulfilling the required–provided service constraints can be connected. Although the interfaces dictate the rules of composi- tion, the service model implementation is responsible for specifying the actual behav- ior of the service model. The specification implements the functionality of each of the services that are offered while optionally associating a cost with them.

The use of services allows a decoupling of the functionality and of the imple- mentation of a component. In this fashion, several service models can offer the same service, implemented differently, however, and thus having different associated cost. In this way different implementations can be compared and evaluated based on a specific, preferred cost metric.

Intermodel communication is handled through service requests that have the benefit of allowing the initiator model to request one of the services specified, as required by the model, without knowing any details about the model that provides the required service or how it is implemented. When the service is requested, the service model providing the required service will execute the requested service according to the specification of the model. When the service has been executed, the initiator model is notified that the execution of the service requested has completed.

[11.1 <--- ](11_1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 11.3](11_3.md)