[11.2 <--- ](11_2.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 11.4](11_4.md)

## 11.3. SERVICE MODEL INTERFACES

To facilitate structural composition of models and to allow communication between models, possibly described at different levels of abstraction, interfaces are used. The interfaces directly impose the rules of composition that specify how models can be connected by allowing only interfaces fulfilling the required–provided service constraints to be connected.

The use of interfaces also implies that multiple implementations of a service model can be constructed and be seamlessly interchanged, allowing different implementations to be investigated and described at different levels of abstraction, constrained only by the requirement that the service model implementations considered must implement the same interfaces.

Two types of interfaces are defined:

•   The *passive service model interface* specifies a set of services that the model implementing the interfaces offers to other models. The passive interface also includes structural elements allowing the interface to be connected to an active interface and provide means for requesting the services offered.

•   The *active service model interface* specifies a set of services that are required to be available for the model implementing the interface. The set of required services becomes available for the model that implements the active interface, when the active interface is connected to the passive interface of a service model, which offers a set of services in which the required set of services is a subset.

 

Active service model interfaces can only be connected to passive service model interfaces in which the set of services required by the active service model interface



Service-Based Simulation Framework                            **265**

 

is a subset of the services offered by the passive service model interface. In essence, the composition rules, which specify which active service model interfaces can be connected to which passive service model interfaces, is dictated by the services required and services offered by the two connecting interfaces.

[11.2 <--- ](11_2.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 11.4](11_4.md)