[11.5 <--- ](11_5.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 11.7](11_7.md)

## 11.6. APPLICATION MODELING

Applications are represented by *application models* that are composed of an arbitrary number of components that can be executed in parallel. These executable components are referred to as tasks, each represented by a service model. Application models are used to capture the functional behavior and communication requirements of the application only. The tasks of an application model communicate through the exchange of service requests making communication explicit and implementation independent.

In the general case, a strict separation of the functional behavior, communication requirements, and implementation of an application must be applied in order for the application to be platform-independent. Thus, no assumptions on how the application is implemented should be made. However, in some cases, it may be desirable to include platform-specific information in the application model (e.g., in case an existing platform is modified) and, thus, support for including implementation-specific details in the application model is provided. However, including such detail will reduce the number of platforms onto which the application model can be mapped.

Application models can be executed and used for verifying the functional behavior of the model. However, at the application level of abstraction, there is no notion of time, resources, or other quantitative performance estimates. To obtain these, the service models of the application model must be mapped onto the service models of a platform model. When the tasks of an application model are mapped onto the processing elements of a platform model, the tasks, when executed, can request the services offered by the processing elements, modeling the execution of a particular functionality or set of functionalities.

[11.5 <--- ](11_5.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 11.7](11_7.md)