[11.7 <--- ](11_7.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 11.9](11_9.md)

## 11.8. SYSTEM MODELING

A system model is constructed by mapping the service models of one or more application models onto the service models of a platform model. If multiple service models from an application model are mapped onto the same service model of a platform model, a scheduler must be provided as part of the platform model. Schedulers are implemented as separate service models, for example, acting as abstract operating systems.

An application model is mapped onto a platform model by specifying how the active service model interfaces of an application model should be connected to the passive service model interfaces of the platform model. Mappings are specified in a separate XML file, which allows different mappings to be easily investigated without changing the actual model descriptions.

The service models of the platform model allow designers to associate quantita- tive cost with the execution of an application model. Without a platform model, the service models of an application model simply execute in zero time and have no cost associated. When the service models of an application model are mapped onto the service models of a platform model, it becomes possible to capture resource require- ments, quantitative cost, and associate a time measure with the execution of the application model on the target platform. In this way, it is the platform model that introduces a notion of time into the simulations. Thus, the platform model orches- trates the execution of a given application model with respect to the timing and resource requirements defined by the individual parts of the application model that are executing on the platform model.

A given mapping is required to be valid in order for the resulting system model to be used for performance estimation through simulations. A mapping is said to be valid if and only if all the requested services of a given application model are offered by the processing elements of the platform model onto which it is mapped. However, it is *not* a requirement that all service models of an application model are mapped to the platform model. In the case where a service model of an application model is unmapped, only the functional behavior of the service model is modeled and no performance estimates are associated with that particular task. Currently, the



**274**                                       Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

validity of a given mapping is determined during runtime only, resulting in an error during simulation in the case of an invalid mapping. In the future, however, tools for performing such checks before runtime will be constructed. Also, future work will include the possibility of performing checks for the semantic validity of specific mappings to ensure, for example, that no deadlocks occur in a given mapping.

[11.7 <--- ](11_7.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 11.9](11_9.md)