[11 <--- ](11.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 13](13.md)

# 12. Consistency Management of UML Models

*Emilia* *Farcas,* *Ingolf* *H.* *Krüger,* *and* *Massimiliano Menarini*

- [12.1](12_1.md)  Introduction 
  - 12.1.1  Multiview Models and Consistency Challenges 
  - 12.1.2  Inconsistency Example. 
  - 12.1.3  Outline 
- [12.2](12_2.md)  State of the Art in Consistency and Semantics. 
  - 12.2.1  UML Model Consistency Requirements. 
  - 12.2.2  Consistency Checking. 
  - 12.2.3  Semantics 
- [12.3](12_3.md)  Solving UML Consistency 
  - 12.3.1  Queries and Constraints Semantics 
    - 12.3.1.1  Notational Preliminaries and System Formalization 
    - 12.3.1.2  Abstract Specification Language. 
    - 12.3.1.3  Specification Language Semantics. 
  - 12.3.2  Notion of Consistency. 
  - 12.3.3  Example of Consistency Management. 
- [12.4](12_4.md)  Discussion 
- [12.5](12_5.md)  Summary and Outlook. 

## ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This work was partially supported by the National Science Foundation within projects CCF-0702791 and CNS-0963702, as well as by funds from the California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology (Calit2) at the University of California, San Diego, CA. We are grateful to Barry Demchak and the anonymous reviewers for insightful comments.

## REFERENCES

1.  Giese, H., G. Karsai, E. Lee, B. Rumpe, and B. Schätz. 2011. *Model-Based Engineering of Embedded Real-Time Systems*. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 6100. Berlin/ Heidelberg: Springer.

2.  Object Management Group. 2010. “Unified Modeling Language (OMG UML), Infrastructure, Version 2.3.” formal/2010-05-03, OMG.

3.  Object Management Group. 2010. “Unified Modeling Language (OMG UML), Superstructure, Version 2.3.” formal/2010-05-05, OMG.

4.  Sprinkle, J., B. Rumpe, H. Vangheluwe, and G. Karsai. 2011. “Metamodelling—State of the Art and Research Challenges.” In *Model-Based Engineering of Embedded Real- Time Systems*, edited by H. Giese, G. Karsai, E. Lee, B. Rumpe, and B. Schätz, 57–76. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 6100. Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer.

5.  Object Management Group. 2009. “UML Profile for MARTE: Modeling and Analysis of Real-Time Embedded Systems, Version 1.0.” formal/2009-11-02, OMG.

6.  Warmer, J., and A. Kleppe. 1998. *The Object Constraint Language: Precise Modeling with UML*. Wokingham, U.K.: Addison-Wesley.

7.  Batory, D., D. Benavides, and A. Ruiz-Cortes. 2006. “Automated Analysis of Feature Models: Challenges Ahead.” *Commun ACM* 49 (12): 45–7.

8.  Object Management Group. 2003. “Model Driven Architecture (MDA), Version 1.0.1.” omg/03-06-01, OMG.

9.  Winter, V., F. Kordon, and M. Lemoine. 2004. “The BART Case Study.” In *Formal Methods for Embedded Distributed Systems*, edited by F. Kordon, and M. Lemoine, 3–22. New York, NY: Springer US.

10.  Finkelstein, A. C. W., D. Gabbay, A. Hunter, J. Kramer, and B. Nuseibeh. 1994. “Inconsistency Handling in Multiperspective Specifications.” *IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering* 20 (8): 569–78. 

11.  Easterbrook, S., and B. Nuseibeh. 1996. “Using ViewPoints for Inconsistency Management.” *Software Engineering Journal* 11 (1): 31–43.

12.  Easterbrook, S. 1996. “Learning from Inconsistency.” In *Proceedings of the Eighth International Workshop on Software Specification and Design,* March 22–23, 1996, pp. 136–40. Schloss Velen, Germany. Washington, DC, USA: IEEE Computer Society.

13.  Easterbrook, S., J. Callahan and V. Wiels. 1998. “V&V through Inconsistency Tracking and Analysis.” In *Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Software Specification and Design*, April 16–18, 1998, pp. 43–9. Mie, Japan, Washington, DC: IEEE Computer Society.

14.  Evans, E. 2004. *Domain-Driven Design: Tackling Complexity in the Heart of Software*, Wokingham, U.K.: Addison-Wesley.

15.  Hongyuan, W., F. Tie, Z. Jiachen, and Z. Ke. 2005. “Consistency Check between Behaviour Models.” In *IEEE International Symposium on Communications and Information Technology*, pp. 486–9.

16.  Engels, G., J. M. Küster, R. Heckel, and L. Groenewegen. 2001. “A Methodology for Specifying and Analyzing Consistency of Object-Oriented Behavioral Models.” *SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes* 26 (5): 186–95.

17.  Malgouyres, H., and Motet, G. 2006. “A UML Model Consistency Verification Approach Based on Meta-Modeling Formalization.” In *Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Applied Computing*, April 23–27, 2006, pp. 1804–9. Dijon, France, New York: ACM.

18.  Van Der Straeten, R., T. Mens, J. Simmonds, and V. Jonckers. 2003. “Using Description Logic to Maintain Consistency between UML Models.” In *“UML” 2003—The Unified Modeling Language, 2003*, pp. 326–40.

19.  Van Der Straeten, R., and D’Hondt, M. 2006. “Model Refactorings through Rule-Based Inconsistency Resolution.” In *Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Applied Computing*, April 23–27, 2006, pp. 1210–7. Dijon, France, New York: ACM.

20.  Sabetzadeh, M., and S. Easterbrook. 2006. “View Merging in the Presence of Incompleteness and Inconsistency.” *Requirements Engineering* 11 (3): 174–93. New York: Springer-Verlag.

21.  Nentwich, C., W. Emmerich, A. Finkelstein, and E. Ellmer. 2003. “Flexible Consistency Checking.” *ACM Transaction Software Engineering Methodology* 12 (1): 28–63. New York: ACM.

22.  Engels, G., J. H. Hausmann, R. Heckel, and S. Sauer. 2002. “Testing the Consistency of Dynamic UML Diagrams.” In *Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Integrated Design and Process Technology (IDPT)*, Pasadena, California, June 23–28, 2002.

23.  Egyed, A. 2007. “Fixing Inconsistencies in UML Design Models.” In *Proceedings of the 29th International Conference on Software Engineering*, May 20–26, 2007, pp. 292–301. Los Alamitos, CA: Minneapolis, IEEE Computer Society.

24.  Egyed, A. 2007. “UML/Analyzer: A Tool for the Instant Consistency Checking of UML Models.” In *Proceedings of the 29th International Conference on Software Engineering*, pp. 793–6.

25.  Object Management Group. 2007. “MOF 2.0/XMI Mapping, Version 2.1.1.” formal/2007-12-01, OMG.

26.  Egyed, A. 2006. “Instant Consistency Checking for the UML.” In *Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Software Engineering*, May 20–28, 2006, pp. 381–90. Shanghai, China: ACM Press.

27.  “A Formal Semantics for UML.” 2006. Workshop at MoDELS. May 12–19, 2001. Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Washington, DC: IEEE Computer Society.

28.  Krüger, I. H., and M. Menarini. 2007. “Queries and Constraints: A Comprehensive Semantic Model for UML2.” In *Models in Software Engineering*, edited by T. Kühne, 327–8. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 4364. Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer.

29.  Broy, M., M. Cengarle, and B. Rumpe. 2006. *Towards a System Model for UML. The Structural Data Model*. Technical Report TUM-I0612. Munich, Germany: Munich University of Technology.

30.  Broy, M., M. Cengarle, and B. Rumpe. 2007. *Towards a System Model for UML. Part 2. The Control Model*. Technical Report TUM-I0710. Munich, Germany: Munich University of Technology.

31.  Broy, M., M. Cengarle, and B. Rumpe. 2007. *Towards a System Model for UML. Part 3. The State Machine Model*. Technical Report TUM-I0711. Munich, Germany: Munich University of Technology.

32.  Broy, M., and K. Stølen. 2001. *Specification and Development of Interactive Systems: Focus on Streams, Interfaces, and Refinement*. Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer.

33.  Easterbrook, S., and M. Chechik. 2001. “A Framework for Multi-Valued Reasoning Over Inconsistent Viewpoints.” In *Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Software Engineering*, May 12–19, 2001, pp. 411–20. Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Washington, DC: IEEE Computer Society.

34.  Inverardi, P., H. Muccini, and P. Pelliccione. 2001. “Automated Check of Architectural Models Consistency Using SPIN.” In *Proceedings of the 16th Annual International Conference on Automated Software Engineering,* November 26–29, 2001, pp. 346–9. San Diego, California, edited by H. Muccini. Washington, DC: IEEE Computer Society.

35.  Ossami, D., J. Jacquot, and J. Souquières. 2005. “Consistency in UML and B Multi- View Specifications.” *Integrated Formal Methods* 3771: 386–405.

36.  Engels, G., R. Heckel, and J. M. Küster. 2001. “Rule-Based Specification of Behavioral Consistency Based on the UML Meta-Model.” In *Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on UML 2001—The Unified Modeling Language. Modeling Languages, Concepts, and Tools*. October 1–5, Toronto, ON, Canada, pp. 272–86.

37.  Paige, R. F., P. J. Brooke, and J. S. Ostroff. 2007. “Metamodel-Based Model Conformance and Multiview Consistency Checking.” *ACM Transaction Software Engineering Methodology* 16 (3): 11.

38.  Clarke, E., and E. Emerson. 1982. “Design and Synthesis of Synchronization Skeletons Using Branching Time Temporal Logic.” In *Logics of Programs*, edited by D. Kozen, 52–71. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 131. Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer.

39.  Holzmann, G. J. 2004. *The SPIN Model Checker: Primer and Reference Manual*, p. 608. Wokingham, U.K.: Addison-Wesley Professional.

40.  Milner, R. 1982. *A Calculus of Communicating Systems*, April 1, 1985, p. 256. Secaucus, NJ: Springer-Verlag New York, Inc.

41.  Abrial, J. R. 1996. *The B-Book: Assigning Programs to Meanings*. Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press.

42.  Hoare, C. A. R. 1985. *Communicating Sequential Processes.* Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.

43.  Ingolf Heiko Krüger. 2000. “Distributed System Design with Message Sequence Charts.” PhD dissertation. Fakultät für Informatik, Technischen Universität München.

44.  Pnueli, A. 1977. “The Temporal Logic of Programs.” In *Proceedings of the 18th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS 1977)*, October 31– November 2, 1977. pp. 46–57. Long Beach, CA: IEEE Computer Society.

45.  Goranko, V., A. Kyrilov, and D. Shkatov. 2010. “Tableau Tool for Testing Satisfiability in LTL: Implementation and Experimental Analysis.” *Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science* 262: 113–25. Elsevier Science Publishers B. V.

46.  Rozier, K. Y., and M. Y. Vardi. 2007. “LTL Satisfiability Checking.” In *Proceedings of the 14th International SPIN Conference on Model Checking Software*, pp. 149–67. Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag.