[12.4 <--- ](12_4.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 13](13.md)

## 12.5. SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK

UML is a widely accepted language that can be used at different stages of the development process. In fact, while the current state of the art provides profiles that support real-time systems modeling, some issues in ensuring consistency, defining semantics, understanding models, and integrating models of large-scale systems still hamper the applicability of UML to this domain. To address these shortcomings, we discussed the consistency problem and steps toward a comprehensive solution for it in more detail.

From our analysis of the various techniques to address consistency management in UML, we infer that, even if it is theoretically possible to manage consistency in UML, the problem has not been solved yet completely. Most of the problems in dealing with consistency, and in general in developing analysis tools and techniques for UML arise from the size and complexity of the UML metamodel and from the



**326**                                       Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

lack of a comprehensive semantics definition. Consistency of models and correctness of analysis and synthesis tools are key requirements for modeling real-time systems—hence, research into increased consistency provides significant leverage for improved quality for this systems class.

We proposed a solution for consistency checking of UML based on the definition of an abstract model of the application domain that we want to target and a translation of the UML metamodel to this abstract domain. We also defined two theorems that apply to our consistency checking solution: the first enables checking consistency on subsets of system models, the second enables using SAT solvers for LTL to automate consistency checking. Although we believe the solution we proposed to be a significant step in the right direction, to make its use practical, providing a tool that supports automatic translation and detection of inconsistencies is important future work.

[12.4 <--- ](12_4.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 13](13.md)