[13 <--- ](13.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 13.2](13_2.md)

## 13.1. FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROCESS

Because of the complexity of the system, modern aircraft development often adopts a systematic engineering process. The systems engineering has evolved to become a specialized engineering discipline. There are several proposed standards such as IEEE standard (IEEE-Std-1220-1998) and SAE standard (SAE-ARP-4754). Different standards may adopt slightly different practice. However, the core features of a valuable systems engineering process (SEP) should remain unchanged. The purpose of the SEP is to provide a systematic approach for product development and management from initial concept to final delivery. It is a generic problem-solving process that provides the mechanisms for identifying and evolving the product and process definitions of a system. The SEP applies throughout the system life cycle to all activities associated with product development, verification/test, manufacturing,

 

 

**331**



**332**                             Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

training, operation, support, distribution, disposal, and human systems engineering. A typical SEP is described by a “V”-shape diagram, where the top-down line (the left-hand stroke) represents the process from top-level requirement analysis all the way down to detailed design, and the bottom-up line (the right-hand stroke) represents the process of verification and validation starting from the component level at the bottom all the way up to the top system level performance evaluation.

The FCS development process is no exception. The aim is at finding subsystems (control channels) to represent a solution, given the inputs and desired outputs or tolerable errors, and to integrate them into a functional system that performs its assigned tasks associated with flight mission. The design process can be broken into several phases that are extensively interrelated and interconnected [1,2]. After the overall system requirements are established, the basic functional block diagrams are determined, when characteristics of component parts that become unalterable are fixed. Once a best system has been selected through competing system assessment and trade-off study, the detailed design must be carried out and be validated, often through a series of system simulations and eventually ground and flight testing.

On the basis of operational needs, the FCS offers different functions at different levels. On the one hand, an automatic control (autopilot) provides “pilot relief” in continuous slow mode control such as pitch attitude hold, altitude hold, bank angle hold, turn coordination, and heading hold. The flight control can also be used as a landing aid in terms of glide slope control, localization to align the aircraft in the lateral direction, and the flare control. On the other hand, the FCS includes both stability and control augmentation, to provide stability or ensure appropriate handling qualities, and to provide a desired response to a certain control input. Examples of stability augmentation include the pitch damper, roll damper, and yaw damper. Examples of control augmentation may involve the pitch or roll rate control, or normal acceleration [3]. As a result, both the system design process and the flight control development require interactions between design and validation, often through extensive simulations. The effectiveness and efficiency of the development therefore depends on the

smoothness in the iterations and cycles.

[13 <--- ](13.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 13.2](13_2.md)