[13.1 <--- ](13_1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 13.3](13_3.md)

## 13.2. VALIDATION AND VERIFICATION

Requirement validation and verification (RV&V) is an integrated part of the SEP. On the one hand, *validation* is the process of ensuring the requirements are correct and complete and also ensuring compliance with system and airplane-level require- ments. On the other hand, *verification* is the process of ensuring that an item com- plies with all of its design requirements. Requirement validation is embedded in the program risk management. It generally consists of two types of activities: (1) evalu- ation to ensure correctness and (2) assessment to ensure completeness and necessity. The major validation methods include test, analysis, demonstration, and inspection. The requirement verification determines whether the requirements have been fully complied with the design. The major verification methods include test, analysis, examination, and demonstration.

RV&V methods very much depend on the development environment that the systems engineer chooses. For control systems development, we are particularly



Interactive Flight Control System Development                      **333**

 

interested in the simulation environment that supports validation and verification activities. The concept of “systems simulation” abandons a single, monolithic sys- tem development strategy and instead prescribes multiple, incrementally delivered development. It requires that individual control channels and specific functions are tested at an overall system level such that its correctness, completeness (validation), and compliance (verification) are evaluated. It is the highest level of integration and testing before the ground and flight-testing phase is initiated. Several systems simu- lation models are valuable in the FCS development.

Before a design becomes available or finalized, a *rapid prototyping model* allows the simulation model that represents the component under development be placed into the system platform for testing and demonstration. The design parameters are able to be tuned under this framework, and it is convenient to finalize the component product prototype. In a different scenario, some components are difficult to model in software, or the level of details and complexity can only be represented by the actual physical product. A *hardware-in-the-loop* (HITL) model provides a solution that the hardware be inserted into the simulation environment, to replace the simplified com- ponent software. It is expected that the HITL simulation not only provides physical component (the actual prototype) representation but also provides an opportunity to verify the accuracy of the model describing the component product. At a later stage, the *pilot-in-the-loop* (PITL) flight simulation would enable the pilot(s) to operate the virtual aircraft and evaluate its handling qualities.

The challenges when dealing with a heterogeneous simulation environment involve several fronts. From the modeling perspective, the level of fidelity shall be identified. From the integration point of view, special attention shall be placed on the interface design to ensure consistency and compatibility. On the RV&V side, the quantification of requirements, the specification executability, and the traceability shall be represented properly. On the simulation itself, real-time simulation and auto- mation (e.g., automated code generation) aspects shall be considered. In addition, the simulation platform being developed shall also be extensible, scalable, and interoper- able. If possible, the commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) products or modules shall be looked into to take advantage of their maturity, standard, and cost benefits.

[13.1 <--- ](13_1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 13.3](13_3.md)