[13.2 <--- ](13_2.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 13.4](13_4.md)

## 13.3. MODELING AND SIMULATION PLATFORMS

The engineering systems development process typically has a waterfall view as if the different development stages were performed chronologically and independent of each other, when in practice they are extensively interrelated and interconnected. Moreover, a system often consists of multiple subsystems and components that are also interacting or even have conflicting characteristic features. Therefore, the entire development relies on iterative cycles between design modifications and integration and testing verifications, until the final design “converges.” Unfortunately, this also makes the design process time-consuming and fragile: a slight change may require a completely new cycle of redesign. The necessity for an integrated development process arises from complexity of engineering intensive applications such as in aerospace.

Several research programs that aim at developing an integrated development framework have been proposed and developed over the years. Since 1994, NASA has



**334**                             Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

been funded and tasked at a national priority level to develop and deploy advanced technologies in the general aviation industry. The Advanced General Aviation Transport Experiment (AGATE) seeks to improve utility, safety, performance, and environmental compatibility [4]. A joint development of a state-of-the-art com- putational facility for aircraft flight control design and evaluation is referred to as CONDUIT (Control Designer’s Unified Interface) [5]; it provides an environment for design integration and data resource management. A Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) research program entitled Software-Enabled Control (SEC) [6] was initiated to integrate multimodal and coordinated operation of subsys- tems and enable large-scale distribution of control. Under this program, an open con- trol platform (OCP) was developed to integrate control technologies and resources. The approach is to use a hierarchical control structure where mission planning situ- ation awareness is at the highest level, the flight control is at the lowest level, and a midlevel controller coordinates the transitions between model selection and model implementation through mode switching and reconfigurable control. The emerg- ing field of multiparadigm modeling addresses the directions of research in model abstraction, transformation, multiformalism modeling, and metamodeling [7]. They are concerned with the models of system behavior, the relationship between models at different levels of details, conversion of models expressed in different formalism, and the description of classes of models, respectively.

[13.2 <--- ](13_2.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 13.4](13_4.md)