[14 <--- ](14.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 14.2](14_2.md)

## 14.1. INTRODUCTION

The power grid is an important part of the infrastructure that helps us communicate, enjoy most modern comforts, and complete our day-to-day work. Essentially, without the power delivered in a reliable and safe manner, nothing would work. The United States is currently going through a power grid upgrade, termed the “smart grid.” While the existing architecture is by no means “dumb,” it is a heterogeneous mixture of old machines, new machines, old protocols, new protocols, and vastly different networks across various domains.

​     

\* Large portions of this work have been previously published as part of David Bergman’s M.S. thesis [1].



Test Bed for Evaluation of Power Grid Cyber-Infrastructure              **351**

 

The power grid is an incredibly large, incredibly complicated network that combines both physical and cyber devices. The power grid consists of three main parts: generation, transmission, and distribution. The generation occurs at power plants and can derive from various sources such as nuclear, coal, or wind. The transmission lines are the high-voltage lines that run across the country, transporting energy from the generation facilities to the areas of consumption. Distribution occurs at a local level, serving as a step-down from the high-voltage transmission lines to the lower-voltage energy that is fit for the consumers. All three of these domains have their own issues, security, and so on. For instance, security at the generation sites involves armed guards, hardened firewalls, and so on. However, the larger concern is safety because a plant operating outside normal operating parameters poses a risk to personnel and machinery. In the distribution regime, a concern regarding the new smart grid is that of securing private data against disclosure. The transmission section of the grid is smaller in scale than the distribution side, but it has its own unique concerns. Much of the control systems that regulate the transmission lines are now highly connected, both to the control systems’ subsystems and to the Internet. This is an issue that must be addressed, and the research documented in this chapter has been a step forward in evaluating potential solutions to potential problems.

Traditionally, the grid has used Modbus over serial connections to communicate between devices. More recently, protocols such as DNP3 in the United States and IEC 60870-5 in Europe have been used to communicate over the long distances between substations and control stations. These protocols are also used to communicate between the substations and the remote terminal units (RTUs) in the field. Both in the United States and in Europe, the current trend in the substation itself is to use IEC 61850 to communicate. These current and future trends are discussed in the work by Mohagheghi, Stoupis, and Wang [2].

Changes to these protocols are part of an emerging awareness of the need for security in supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, and the Department of Energy (DOE) is giving considerable attention to modernizing one of our country’s critical infrastructures (CI), the power grid. We have seen the effects of a power outage in many areas [3–5], and the disastrous effects are exponentially worse at even larger scales. Blackouts have occurred for various reasons, be they mechanical failures, control failures, network failure, operator failure, or a combination. There are also realistic attack vectors—both cyber [6–8] and physical [9]—that must be better understood before a potential attempt at exploiting them. Investigation of all of these failure modes will result in remediation techniques that can provide protection. Both independent researchers and government officials have formed workgroups and task forces [10,11] to investigate and offer their advice [12], but their suggestions must be tested and refined before they are implemented.

However, working directly with the power grid to conduct these investigations is a poor decision for multiple reasons. For the very same reason that the power grid must be made secure—that it is critical to the operation of the United States—modifications to the grid must not be done until adequate testing has taken place. As such, an important approach to studying cyber-security of the power grid is through test systems, so as not to interfere with operational systems. These test systems may use actual equipment to properly understand how the equipment will react in various situations.



**352**                                       Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

However, the scope of the power grid makes it infeasible to create a physical test system anywhere near its full scale.

Parts of this problem can be solved piece by piece, but to obtain a good understanding of how technologies interact in the grid, test beds play a crucial role. The Virtual Power System TestBed (VPST) aims to provide a national resource, whereby new technologies can be tested in a realistic environment, and clear feedback can be given about their efficacies. VPST is part of the Trustworthy Cyber Infrastructure for the Power Grid (TCIP) [13] project and supported by the National Science Foundation (NSF), the DOE, and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).

Certain technologies, such as cryptography, would stand to gain a lot from detailed simulation. Cryptography research can take different forms in the SCADA environment. It can be used to investigate the practicality of retrofitting bump-in- the-wire devices between legacy devices [14], research various forms of key management [15], test the efficacy of using puzzles to confirm identity in a large-scale network [16], or examine protocols such as DNP3 with Secure Authentication [17] or DNPSec [18].

Unique requirements of the power grid motivate the work documented in this chapter. The massive scale of the power grid necessitates the use of a virtual environment that can match its scope. Other test beds such as Defense Technology Experimental Research (DETER) [19] will not scale well enough because of the dependence on physical SCADA hardware (as opposed to simulated SCADA hardware). OPNET- based simulators will not scale, because, unlike Real-Time Immersive Network Simulation Environment (RINSE), they do not support multiresolution simulation— a technique that allows highly scalable frameworks. Certainly, these test beds provide essential services and are not to be discounted. However, they do present a gap that we intend to fill with VPST.

The beginning of this chapter focuses on describing the SCADA simulation portion of VPST. First, we provide a brief background on the network communications simulator, RINSE, which provides the basis for our SCADA models discussed in Section 14.2 as well as the unique characteristics of the power grid. In Section 14.2, we also describe DNP3, one of the primary protocols used in SCADA, as well as attacks against DNP3 and the approach used to model it. Then, Section 14.3 discusses virtual hosts and the control flows for each of the SCADA-specific virtual hosts. Section 14.4 details the local lab enivronment and what each portion is capable of providing. Section 14.4.1 describes the steps we have taken to develop and validate our efforts to create the virtual test bed. Next, Section 14.5 describes a potential workflow for testing a new technology in the local test bed. Finally, we conclude in Section 14.6 while detailing some of our ongoing work.

[14 <--- ](14.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 14.2](14_2.md)