[14.5 <--- ](14_5.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 15](15.md)

## 14.6. CONCLUDING REMARKS

### 14.6.1 Conclusion

In this chapter, we have discussed the development of virtual models for DNP3.0, data aggregators, and relays within the RINSE framework. These models are important as they provide a realistic environment in which experimentation on emerging power technologies can take place. The smart grid and its related technology are being integrated into the existing grid at a rapid pace and with little validation. We must understand how this new technology affects existing technologies and infrastructure. By utilizing the models discussed above, we provide such an environment to test these technologies. To provide a realistic simulation, the virtual relays acquire data from PowerWorld, a power flow simulator, through a virtual host termed the State Server. This State Server captures snapshots of the electrical simulation and provides them to the virtual relays through shared memory. By enabling real-time information to be passed through our SCADA simulation, RINSE provides a platform for testing new technologies in a scalable, high-fidelity manner. A sample workflow that shows the steps that are required to verify the functionality of a new technology was presented.

### 14.6.2 Future Work

One area that must be modeled is *report-by-exception* polling. This can come in two flavors. The first is a *polled report-by-exception*, which is a poll that only asks for data that has changed. Another form is *unsolicited report-by-exception*. This allows a relay to send a message if something has changed state, without being asked to do so. This type of reporting is also currently unimplemented, but would require greater effort because of the nature in which the State Server is implemented. Without having access to the actual grid, but through the advice of experts, it seems as though relays support *report-by-exception*, but often do not use it as resources may be better spent on real-time monitoring. In any case, this seems like a natural feature to implement.

The DNP Users Group has published test procedures for Levels 1 and 2, the simplest implementations. Future work should ensure that the virtual models developed in RINSE pass these tests, or at least that subportions of these tests are deemed relevant to the demands of the experiment. Models may be introduced that conform to varying levels of these tests, so as to provide certain guarantees regarding both fidelity and performance.

One area of concern is that of clock skew among the relays. As implemented, the State Server receives values in chunks. All data within a given chunk has occurred during the same time slice. However, in the physical grid, data from separate relays are never guaranteed to occur during the same time slice. This is the type of problem that synchrophasor technology [37] is attempting to solve. However, the question of how, or even whether, to simulate this effect will require some examination. Again, this raises the question regarding fidelity versus performance. To simulate this clock skew, the state server must query each data point separately and provide randomization in the timing as well. This overhead may impact the performance of the simulation as well as the freshness of the data.

[14.5 <--- ](14_5.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 15](15.md)