[14 <--- ](14.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 16](16.md)

# 15. System Approach to Simulations for Training Instruction, Technology, and Process Engineering

*Sae* *Schatz,* *Denise* *Nicholson,* *and Rhianon Dolletski*

- [15.1](15_1.md)  Introduction 371
  - 15.1.1  What Is Distributed Real-Time SBT? 372
- [15.2](15_2.md)  Brief History of Distributed SBT. 373
- [15.3](15_3.md)  Persistent Challenges 375
  - 15.3.1  Interoperability. 375

    - 15.3.1.1  Software Protocols 375

    - 15.3.1.2  Domain Architectures 376
    - 15.3.1.3  Fair Play. 377
  - 15.3.2  Fidelity. 377
    - 15.3.2.1  Expanding Fidelity into New Domains. 378
  - 15.3.3  Instructional Strategies. 379

  - 15.3.4  Instructor Workload 380
    - 15.3.4.1  Human Effort Required for Distributed AAR 380
  - 15.3.5  Lack of Effectiveness Assessment. 381

  - 15.3.6  Lack of Use Outside of the Defense Sector 382
- [15.4](15_4.md)  Conclusion. 383

## **ACKNOWLEDGMENTS**

This work is supported by the Office of Naval Research Grant N0001408C0186, the Next-generation Expeditionary Warfare Intelligent Training (NEW-IT) program. The views and conclusions contained in this document are those of the authors and should not be interpreted as representing the official policies, either expressed or implied, of the ONR or the U.S. Government. The U.S. Government is authorized to reproduce and distribute reprints for Government purposes notwithstanding any copyright notation hereon.

## **REFERENCES**

1.  MSCO. 2010. *DoD Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Glossary.* Alexandria, VA: Modeling and Simulation Coordination Office (MSCO).

2.  Salas, E., L. Rhodenizer, and C. A. Bowers. 2000. “The Design and Delivery of Crew Resource Management Training: Exploiting Available Resources.” *Human Factors* 42 (3): 490–511.

3.  Oser, R. L., J. A. Cannon-Bowers, D. J. Dwyer, and H. Miller. 1997. *An Event Based Approach for Training: Enhancing the Utility of Joint Service Simulations*. Paper Presented at the 65th Military Operations Research Society Symposium, Quantico, VA, June 1997.

4.  Joint Staff/J-7. 2008. *The Joint Training System: A Primer for Senior Leaders (CJCS Guide 3501)*. Washington, DC: Department of Defense.

5. Link, E. A. 1930. Jnr U.S. Patent 1,825,462, filed 1930.

6.  Owens, L. 1986. “Vannevar Bush and the Differential Analyzer: The Text and Context of an Early Computer.” *Technology and Culture* 27 (1): 63–95.

7.  Dutton, J. M. 1978. “Information Systems for Transfer of Simulation Technology.” In *Proceedings of the 10th Conference on Winter Simulation*, 995–99. New York: ACM.

8.  Nance, R. E. 1996. “A History of Discrete Event Simulation Programming Languages.” In *History of Programming Languages*, vol. 2, edited by T. J. Bergin and R. G. Gibson, 369–427. New York: ACM.

9.  Miller, D. C., and J. A. Thorpe. 1995. “SIMNET: The Advent of Simulator Networking.” *Proceedings of the IEEE* 83 (8): 1114–23.

10.  Cosby, L. N. 1999. “SIMNET: An Insider’s Perspective.” *Simulation Technology 2* (1).

11.  Miller, G., A. Adams, and D. Seidel. 1993. *Aggregate Level Simulation Protocol (ALSP)* (1993 Confederation Annual Report; Contract No. DAAB07-94-C-H601). McLean, VA: MITRE Corporation.

12.  Richbourg, R., and Lutz, R. 2008. *Live Virtual Constructive Architecture Roadmap (LVCAR) Comparative Analysis of the Middlewares* (Interim Report Appendix D; Case No. 09-S-2412 / M&S CO Project No. 06OC-TR-001). Alexandria, VA: Institute for Defense Analyses.

13.  DMSO. 1998. *High-Level Architecture (HLA) Transition Report* (ADA402321). Alexandria, VA: Defense Modeling and Simulation Office.

14.  Stout, R. J., C. Bowers, and D. Nicholson. 2008. “Guidelines for Using Simulations to Train Higher Level Cognitive and Teamwork Skills.” In *The PSI Handbook of Virtual Environments for Training and Education*, edited by D. Nicholson, D. Schmorrow, and J. Cohn, 270–96. Westport, CT: PSI.

15.  Fitzsimmons, E. 2000. “The Defense Modeling and Simulation Office: How It Started.” *Simulation Technology Magazine* 2 (2a). [http://www.stanford.edu/dept/HPS/TimLenoir/](http://www.stanford.edu/) [MilitaryEntertainment/Simnet/SISO%20News%20-%20Preview%20Article.htm](http://www.stanford.edu/), accessed: 10 April, 2011.

16.  Searle, J., and J. Brennan. 2006. “General Interoperability Concepts.” In *Integration of Modelling and Simulation, Educational Notes* (RTO-EN-MSG-043, Paper 3), 3-1–3-8. Neuilly-sur-Seine, France: RTO. [http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?](http://www.dtic.mil/)AD=ADA470923

17.  Straßburger, S., T. Schulze, and R. Fujimoto. 2008. *Future Trends in Distributed Simulation and Distributed Virtual Environments: Peer Study Final Report, Version* *1.0*. Ilmenau, Magdeburg, Atlanta: Ilmenau University of Technology, University of Magdeburg, Georgia Institute of Technology.

18.  Henninger, A. E., D. Cutts, M. Loper, R. Lutz, R. Richbourg, R. Saunders, and S. Swenson. 2008. *Live Virtual Constructive Architecture Roadmap (LVCAR) Final Report* (Case No. 09-S-2412 / M&S CO Project No. 06OC-TR-001). Alexandria, VA: Institute for Defense Analyses.

19.  Hassaine, F., N. Abdellaoui, A. Yavas, P. Hubbard, and A. L. Vallerand. 2006. “Effectiveness of JSAF as an Open Architecture, Open Source Synthetic Environment in Defence Experimentation.” In *Transforming Training and Experimentation through Modelling and Simulation* (Meeting Proceedings RTO-MP-MSG-045, Paper 11; 11-1– 11-6). Neuilly-sur-Seine, France: RTO.

20.  SISO. 2009. “A Brief Overview of SISO.” [www.sisostds.org](http://www.sisostds.org/), accessed: 1 April, 2011.

21.  Fujimoto, R. M. 2001. “Parallel and Distributed Simulation Systems.” In *Proceedings of the 33th Conference on Winter Simulation*, edited by B. A. Peters, J. S. Smith, D. J. Medeiros, and M. W. Rohrer, 147–57. New York: ACM.

22.  Sarjoughian, H. S. 2006. “Model Composability.” In *Proceedings* *of* *the* *38th* *Conference on* *Winter* *Simulation*, edited by L. F. Perrone, F. P. Wieland, J. Liu, B. G. Lawson, D. M. Nicol, and R. M. Fujimoto, 149–58. New York: ACM.

23.  National Research Council, Committee on Modeling and Simulation for Defense Transformation. 2006. *Defense Modeling, Simulation, and Analysis: Meeting the Challenge.* Washington, DC: The National Academies Press.

24.  Andrews, D. A., L. A. Carroll, and H. H. Bell. 1995. *The Future of Selective Fidelity in Training Devices* (AL/HR-TR-1995-0195)*.* Mesa, AZ: Human Resources Directorate Aircrew Training Research Division.

25.  Beaubien, J. M., and D. P. Baker. 2004. “The Use of Simulation for Training Teamwork Skills in Health Care: How Low Can You Go?” *Quality and Safety in Health Care* 13 (Suppl 1): i51–i56.

26.  Ross, K. G., J. K. Phillips, G. Klein, and J. Cohn. 2005. “Creating Expertise: A Framework to Guide Simulation-Based Training.” In *Proceedings of I/ITSEC.* Orlando, FL: NTSA.

27.  Stewart, J. E., D. M. Johnson, and W. R. Howse. 2008. *Fidelity Requirements for Army Aviation Training Devices: Issues and Answers* (Research Report 1887). Arlington, VA: U.S. Army Research Institute.

28.  NRAC. 2009. *Immersive Simulation for Marine Corps Small Unit Training* (ADA523942)*.* Arlington, VA: Naval Research Advisory Committee.

29.  Biggerstaff, S. 2007. *Human Social Culture Behavior Modeling (HSCB) Program.* Paper Presented at the 2007 Disruptive Technologies Conference, Washington, DC, September 2007.

30.  Lawlor, M. 2010. “Infusing FITE into Simulations.” *SIGNAL Magazine* 64 (9): 45–50.

31.  Fowlkes, J., D. J. Dwyer, R. J. Oser, and E. Salas. 1998. “Event-Based Approach to Training (EBAT).” *The International Journal of Aviation Psychology* 8 (3): 209–221.

32.  van der Bosch, K., and J. B. J. Riemersma. 2004. “Reflections on Scenario-Based Training in Tactical Command.” In *Scaled Worlds: Development, Validation, and Applications*, edited by S. Schiflett, L. R. Elliott, E. Salas, and M. D. Coovert, 22–36. Burlington, VT: Ashgate.

33.  Vogel-Walcutt, J. J., T. Marino-Carper, C. A. Bowers, and D. Nicholson. 2010. “Increasing Efficiency in Military Learning: Theoretical Considerations and Practical Applications.” *Military Psychology* 22 (3): 311–39.

34.  Schatz, S., C.A. Bowers, and D. Nicholson. 2009. “Advanced Situated Tutors: Design, Philosophy, and a Review of Existing Systems.” In *Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Conference of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society*, 1944–48. Santa Monica, CA: Human Factors and Ergonomics Society.

35.  Vogel-Walcutt, J. J., Marshall, R., Fowlkes, J., Schatz, S., Dolletski-Lazar, R., & Nicholson, D. (2011). Effects of instructional strategies within an instructional sup- port system to improve knowledge acquisition and application. In *Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society*. Santa Monica, CA: Human Factors and Ergonomics Society. September 19–23, 2011 Las Vegas, Nevada.

36.  Nicholson, D., and J. J. Vogel-Walcutt. 2010. *Algorithms Physiologically Derived to Promote Learning Efficiency (APPLE) 6.3*. [http://active.ist.ucf.edu](http://active.ist.ucf.edu/).

37.  Ross, P. 2008. “Machine Readable Enumerations for Improved Distributed Simulation Initialisation Interoperability.” In *Proceedings of the SimTect 2008 Simulation Conference*. [http://hdl.handle.net/1947/9101](http://hdl.handle.net/), accessed 5 April, 2011.

38.  Weinstock, C. B., and J. B. Goodenough. 2006. *On system scalability* (Technical Note, CMU/SEI-2006-TN-012). Pittsburgh, PA: Carnegie Mellon University.

39.  Stottler, R. H., R. Jensen, B. Pike, and R. Bingham. 2006. *Adding an Intelligent Tutoring System to an Existing Training Simulation* (ADA454493). San Mateo, CA: Stottler Henke Associates Inc.

40.  Morrison, J. E., and L. L. Meliza. 1999. *Foundations of the After Action Review Process* (ADA368651). Alexandria, VA: Institute for Defense Analyses.

41.  Wiese, E., J. Freeman, W. Salter, E. Stelzer, and C. Jackson. 2008. “Distributed After Action Review for Simulation-Based Training.” In *Human Factors in Simulation and Training*, edited by D. A. Vincenzi, J. A. Wise, M. Mouloua and P. A. Hancock. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

42.  Freeman, J., W. J. Salter, and S. Hoch. 2004. “The Users and Functions of Debriefing in Distributed, Simulation-Based Training.” In *Proceedings of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society 48th Annual Meeting*, 2577–81. Santa Monica, CA: Human Factors and Ergonomics Society.

43.  Rowe, N. C., J. P. Houde, M. N. Kolsch, C. J. Darken, E. R. Heine, A. Sadagic, C. Basu, F. Han. 2010. *Automated Assessment of Physical-Motion Tasks for Military Integrative Training.* Paper Presented at the 2nd International Conference on Computer Supported Education (CSEDU 2010), Noordwijkerhout, The Netherlands, May 2010.

44.  Vogel-Walcutt, J. J., D. Nicholson, and C. Bowers. 2009. *Translating Learning Theories into Physiological Hypotheses*. Paper Presented at the Human Computer Interaction Conference, San Diego, CA, July 19–24, 2009.

45.  Gibson, R., D. J. Medeiros, A. Sudar, B. Waite, and M. W. Rohrer. 2003. “Increasing Return on Investment from Simulation (Panel).” In *Proceedings of the 35th Conference on Winter Simulation*, edited by S. Chick, P. J. Sánchez, D. Ferrin, and D. J. Morrice, 2027–32. New York: ACM.

46.  MSCO. 2009. *Metrics for M&S Investment* (REPORT No. TJ-042608-RP013). Alexandria, VA: Modeling and Simulation Coordination Office (MSCO).

47.  Fujimoto, R. M. 2003. “Distributed Simulation Systems.” In *Proceedings of the 35th Conference on Winter Simulation*, edited by S. Chick, P. J. Sánchez, D. Ferrin, and D. J. Morrice, 2027–32. New York: ACM.

48.  Boer, C. A., A. de Bruin, and A. Verbraeck. 2009. “A Survey on Distributed Simulation in Industry.” *Journal of Simulation* 3: 3–16.

49.  Taylor, S. J. E., A. Bruzzone, R. Fujimoto, B. P. Gan, S. Straßburger, and R. J. Paul. 2002. “Distributed Simulation and Industry: Potentials and Pitfalls.” In *Proceedings of the 34th Conference on Winter Simulation*, edited by E. Yücesan, C.-H.Chen, J. L. Snowdon, and J. M. Charnes, 688–94. New York: ACM.

50.  Lendermann, P., M. U. Heinicke, L. F. McGinnis, C. McLean, S. Straßburger, and S. J. E. Taylor. 2007. “Panel: Distributed Simulation in Industry—A Real-World Necessity or Ivory Tower Fancy?” In *Proceedings of the 39th Conference on Winter Simulation*, edited by S. G. Henderson, B. Biller, M.-H. Hsieh, J. Shortle, J. D. Tew, and R. R. Barton, 1053–62. New York: ACM.

51.  Boer, C. A. 2005. *Distributed Simulation in Industry*. Rotterdam, The Netherlands: Erasmus University Rotterdam.