[15.1 <--- ](15_1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 15.3](15_3.md)

## 15.2. BRIEF HISTORY OF DISTRIBUTED SBT

Simulation has existed for centuries. As early as 2500 bc, ancient Egyptians used figurines to simulate warring factions. However, “modern” simulation only began around the turn of the past century with the invention of mechanical flight simulators. These started appearing around 1910 and are often considered the forerunners of contemporary simulation, in general. The best known early flight simulator, called the Link Trainer (or colloquially, the “Blue Box”), was patented in 1930 [5]. In the years that followed, thousands of Blue Boxes were put into service, particularly by the U.S. government in their effort to train military aviators during World War II.

In general, World War II served as a major catalyst for modern modeling and simulation (M&S). In the United States, the war encouraged the federal government to release unprecedented funding for research, a significant portion of which went to advancing computer development as well as early M&S. The war effort also created the need to analyze large-volume data sets and to perform real-time operations. These computational needs, coupled with the flood of federal money, created a frenzy of competition in computer, modeling, and simulation sciences [6].

The research led to a series of technology breakthroughs throughout the 1940s and 1950s [7], and use of simulation swelled. NASA and the U.S. military, in particular, developed large complex simulators for training purposes [8]. The growth of M&S continued throughout the 1960s, and, by the 1970s, the combination of lessexpensive computing technology and its improved effectiveness ushered in an era of widespread simulation use—particularly within the Defense training community.

A new outlook on training also began to surface. Before the 1970s, SBT had been primarily applied to individual tasks and viewed as substitution training (i.e., a substitution for real-life training used for cost, safety, or other purely logistical reasons). However, during the 1970s, the training community began to value instructional simulation beyond mere substitution [9]. New efforts focused on collective training, the use of realistic and measurable training requirements, and the development of expertise.

Spurred, in part, by the demand for collective and improved training, military investigators began exploring distributed simulation technology. In 1983, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) started development of the futuristic Simulation Network (SIMNET). This effort, championed by Jack A. Thorpe, promised to provide affordable, networked SBT for U.S. warfighters. In the 1980s, the idea of networked simulators was viewed, at best, as high-risk research—or as an impossible pipedream, at worse! However, history now reveals that SIMNET, and the notion of distributed simulation that it represented, were major leaps forward for SBT [10].

By the 1990s, SIMNET had given birth to the era of networked real-time SBT, and although still considered highly experimental, the military started sponsoring more distributed SBT efforts. In addition to SIMNET, the Aggregate-Level Simulation Protocol (ALSP) emerged as another early distributed SBT success [11], and around the same time, software developers released the Distributed Interactive Simulation



**374**                                       Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

(DIS), a more mature version of the original SIMNET design [12]. Both ALSP and DIS were intended to support flexible exchange of data among federated military simulation systems. However, these protocols failed to meet emerging requirements. Therefore, to address a wider set of needs, military M&S leaders developed the High Level Architecture (HLA) protocol. Released in 1996, HLA combined the best features of ALSP and DIS, while also including support for the analysis and acquisition communities [13]. Yet, technologists began to “perceive HLA as a ‘jack of all trades, but master of none’ ” [12, p. 8], and various user communities started developing their own distinct protocols, including the Extensible Modeling and Simulation Framework (XMSF), Test and Training Enabling Architecture (TENA), Virtual Reality Transfer Protocol (VRTP), Common Training Instrumentation Architecture (CTIA), Distributed Worlds Transfer and Communication Protocol (DWTP), and Multi-user 3D Protocol (Mu3D) (for an overview of these middleware technologies,

see the work by Richbourg and Lutz [12]).

Meanwhile, as the development community advanced the technological capabilities of distributed simulation, the training community was identifying new opportunities to improve collective training. Throughout the 1980s, behavioral scientists worked to systemically enhance SBT (in general) by developing Instructional Systems Design (ISD) approaches to simulation content creation, methodically pairing simulation features with desired training outcomes, analyzing instructional strategies for simulation, creating performance assessment techniques, and designing feedback delivery mechanisms—just to name a few topics [14].

Naturally, these instructional advances were also applied to *distributed* SBT. Plus, distributed systems offered their own challenges for the training research community, such as how to build team cohesion among distributed personnel or deliver feedback to geographically distributed trainees.

As the technological and instructional R&D communities created leap-ahead advancements in distributed SBT throughout the 1980s and 1990s, the administrative communities debated and refined the employment of distributed system. Notably, the Defense Modeling and Simulation Office (DMSO; later renamed the Modeling and Simulation Coordination Office [MSCO]) was established in late 1991 to solve coordination gaps among the Services. Before DMSO, military M&S efforts were described as “out of control” with “no identified POC (point of contact) for M&S nor any real focus to the dollars being spent in this area” [15, para. 4]. As Col (ret.) Fitzsimmons, the first DMSO Director, illustrates,

 

. . . I placed four toilet paper cardboard rolls on [the] table and said that if you look down each roll you see what the individual Services are doing . . . basically good stuff. However there is no way to work across the Services to coordinate activities (such as reduce development costs, share ideas etc). Duplication of efforts was obvious from even our short look into all this. I then pointed out that the main mission of the Services was to provide “interoperable” force packages . . . which meant there needed to be a way to do joint training, which also meant there needed to be interoperable training systems. Bottom line was that we felt there needed to be someone guiding development of M&S from the perspective of joint interoperable training and helping coordinate reuse. . .

**Fitzsimmons [15, para. 7]**



System Approach to Simulations for Training                       **375**

 

Thus, DMSO developed into a policy-level office focused on reuse and Joint interoperability for training. Early in DMSO’s existence, its leaders recognized the benefits of integrating live, virtual, and constructive (LVC) simulations through distributed technologies, and LVC became a cornerstone of DMSO efforts [15]. DMSO also championed distributed simulation verification, validation, and accreditation (VV&A) efforts, publishing standards and policies for the Defense community, as well as guiding M&S policy through return-on-investment analyses.

Looking back upon the emergence of distributed real-time SBT, it becomes clear that the military community pioneered this discipline. More specifically, military technologists, training scientists, and visionary policy leaders together made distributed SBT a functional, effective, and usable tool for the Defense community. Yet, despite widespread use of distributed SBT for military training, it remains a fairly nascent capability. In Section 15.3, we outline various issues commonly associated with distributed real-time SBT.

[15.1 <--- ](15_1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 15.3](15_3.md)