[15.3 <--- ](15_3.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 16](16.md)

## 15.4. CONCLUSION

Distributed real-time SBT fills a vital training gap, and it is actively used by various organizations. However, as this chapter has illustrated, employment of distributed real-time SBT still involves challenges, including technological, instructional, and logistical obstacles. Investigators continue to address these gaps; however, practitioners must make trade-offs due to these limitations.

This chapter was intended to provide readers with a general overview of the history and challenges of distributed real-time SBT. The chapter did not contain a comprehensive listing of all gaps or related projects. Instead, we attempted to identify a general set of challenges that are unique to, or otherwise exacerbated by, distributed systems, as well as some formal initiatives attempting to address these issues. We hope that this chapter has provided a broad perspective of the field and that readers have noticed the integrated nature of the distributed SBT challenges discussed herein. Distributed real-time SBT involves technology, people, and policies; thus, by its very nature, this field is a systems engineering challenge. As innovations continue to be made in this domain, it is critical that technologists, researchers, and policy leaders maintain a broad perspective—carefully balancing the resources and outcomes of individual efforts with the impact to the overall system.

[15.3 <--- ](15_3.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 16](16.md)