[15 <--- ](15.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 17](17.md)

# 16. Concurrent Simulation for Online Optimization of Discrete Event Systems

*Christos* *G.* *Cassandras* *and* *Christos* *G.* *Panayiotou*

- [16.1](16_1.md)  Introduction. 389
- [16.2](16_2.md)   Modeling and Simulating Discrete Event Systems. 392
- [16.3](16_3.md)   Sample Path Constructability 395
  - 16.3.1  Standard Clock Approach 398
  - 16.3.2  Augmented System Analysis. 399
- [16.4](16_4.md)   Concurrent Simulation Approach for Arbitrary Event Processes. 401
  - 16.4.1  Notation and Definitions. 402

  - 16.4.2  Observed and Constructed Sample Path Coupling Dynamics. 404
  - 16.4.3  Speedup Factor 408

  - 16.4.4  Extensions of the TWA. 409
- [16.5](16_5.md)   Use of TWA for Real-Time Optimization. 410
- [16.6](16_6.md)   Conclusions 415

## **ACKNOWLEDGMENTS**

The work of Christos Cassandras was supported in part by NSF under Grant EFRI- 0735974, by AFOSR under grants FA9550-07-1-0361 and FA9550-09-1-0095, by

DOE under grant DE-FG52-06NA27490, and by ONR under grant N00014-09-1-1051. The work of Christos G. Panayiotou was supported in part by the Cyprus Research Promotion Foundation, the European Regional Development Fund, the Government of Cyprus, and by the European Project Control for Coordination of distributed systems (CON4COORD - FP7-2007-IST-2-223844).

## **REFERENCES**

1.  Fujimoto, M. R. 2000. *Parallel and Distributed Simulation Systems*. New York: Wiley Interscience.

2.  Boer, C. A., A. de Bruin, and A. Verbraeck. 2008. “Distributed Simulation In Industry—A Survey, Part 3—The HLA Standard in Industry.” In *Proceedings of the 40th Conference on Winter Simulation, WSC ’08*, 1094–102.

3.  Cassandras, C. G., and S. Lafortune. 2007. *Introduction to Discrete Event Systems*. New York: Springer.

4.  Cassandras, C. G., and C. G. Panayiotou. 1999. “Concurrent Sample Path Analysis of Discrete Event Systems.” *Journal of Discrete Event Dynamic Systems: Theory and Applications* 9 (2): 171–95.

5.  Cassandras, C. G., and V. Julka. 1994. “Descent Algorithms for Discrete Resource Allocation Problems.” In *Proceedings of the IEEE 33rd Conference on Decision and Control*, 2639–44.

6.  Panayiotou, C. G., and C. G. Cassandras. 1999. “Optimization of Kanban-Based Manufacturing Systems.” *Automatica* 35 (9): 1521–33.

7.  Yan, D., and H. Mukai. 1992. “Stochastic Discrete Optimization.” *SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization*, 30 (3): 594–612.

8.  Gong, W.-B., Y. C. Ho, and W. Zhai. 1992. “Stochastic Comparison Algorithm for Discrete Optimization with Estimation.” In *Proceedings of 31st IEEE Conference on Decision and Control*, 795–802.

9.  Panayiotou, C. G., and C. G. Cassandras. 2001. “On-Line Predictive Techniques for ‘Differentiated Services’ Networks.” In *Proceedings of IEEE Conference on Decision and Control*, 4529–34.

10.  Panayiotou, C. G., and C. G. Cassandras. 1997. “Dynamic Resource Allocation in Discrete Event Systems.” In *Proceedings of IEEE Mediterranean Conference on Control and Systems*.

11.  Vakili, P. 1991. “Using a Standard Clock Technique for Efficient Simulation.” *Operations* *Research Letters* 10 (8): 445–52.

12.  Cassandras, C. G., and S. G. Strickland. 1989. “On-Line Sensitivity Analysis of Markov Chains.” *IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control* 34 (1): 76–86.

13.  Cassandras, C. G., and S. G. Strickland. 1989. “Observable Augmented Systems for Sensitivity Analysis of Markov and Semi-Markov Processes.” *IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control* 34 (10): 1026–37.

14.  Park, Y., and E. K. P. Chong. 1995. “Distributed Inversion in Timed Discrete Event Systems.” *Journal of Discrete Event Dynamic Systems* 5(2/3), 219–41.

15.  Cassandras, C. G., and W. Shi. 1996. “Perturbation Analysis of Multiclass Multiobjective Queueing Systems with ‘Quality-of-Service’ Guarantees.” In *Proceedings of the IEEE 35th Conference on Decision and Control*, 3322–7.

16.  Cassandras, C. G., L. Dai, and C.G. Panayiotou. 1998. “Ordinal Optimization for a Class of Deterministic and Stochastic Discrete Resource Allocation Problems.” *IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control* 43 (7), 881–900.

17.  Dai, L., and C. H. Chen. 1997. “Rates of Convergence of Ordinal Comparison for Dependent Discrete Event Dynamic Systems.” *Journal of Optimization Theory and Applications* 94 (1): 29–54.