[16 <--- ](16.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 18](18.md)

# 17. Toward Accurate Simulation of Large-Scale Systems via Time Dilation

*James* *Edmondson* *and* *Douglas* *C.* *Schmidt*

- [17.1](17_1.md)  Introduction 
- [17.2](17_2.md)  Background 
  - 17.2.1  Formal Composition Techniques 
  - 17.2.2  Simulation Techniques. 
- [17.3](17_3.md)  Motivating Scenarios. 
  - 17.3.1  Ethernet Capture Effect. 

  - 17.3.2  Application Services. 

  - 17.3.3  Large-Scale Systems 
- [17.4](17_4.md)  Applying Time Dilation with Diecast. 
  - 17.4.1  Overview 
    - 17.4.1.1  Time Dilation Factor (TDF) and Scale Factor (SF) 

    - 17.4.1.2  Paravirtualized vs. Fully Virtualized VMs 

    - 17.4.1.3  CPU Scheduling 
    - 17.4.1.4  Network Emulation. 
  - 17.4.2  Application to Motivating Scenarios 
  - 17.4.3  Future Work. 
- [17.5](17_5.md)  Addressing Issues of Time Dilation in Physical Memory. 
  - 17.5.1  Overview 

  - 17.5.2  Solutions. 
    - 17.5.2.1  More Memory or More Hosts. 
    - 17.5.2.2  Memory Emulation. 
- [17.6](17_6.md)  Concluding Remarks 

## **REFERENCES**

1.  Basu, A., M. Bozga, and J. Sifakis. 2006. “Modeling Heterogeneous Real-Time Components in BIP.” In *Fourth IEEE International Conference on Software Engineering and Formal Methods*, Pune, India 3–12.

2.  Mogul, J. C. 2006. “Emergent (Mis)behavior vs. Complex Software Systems.” 2006. In *1st ACM SIGOPS/EuroSys European Conference on Computer Systems*, 293–304. Belgium: Leuven.

3.  Ramakrishnan, K. R. and H. Yang. 1994. “The Ethernet Capture.” In *Proceedings of IEEE 19th Local Computer Networks Conference*. Minneapolis, MN.

4.  Gupta, D., K. Yokum, M. McNett, A. C. Snoeren, G. M. Voelker, and A. Vahdat. 2006. “To Infinity and Beyond: Time-Warped Network Emulation.” In *Proceedings of the 3rd USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation*, San Jose, CA.

5.  Einstein, A. 1905. “Zur Elektrodynamik bewegter Körper.” *Annalen der Physik* 17: 891.

6.  Gupta, Diwaker, Kashi V. Vishwanath, and Amin Vahdat. 2008. “DieCast: Testing Distributed Systems with an Accurate Scale Model.” In *5th USENIX Symposium on Networked System Design and Implementation*, 407–22. San Francisco, CA.

7.  Cheng, B. H. C., L. A. Campbell, and E. Y. Wang. 2000. “Enabling Automated Analysis through the Formalization of Object-Oriented Modeling Diagrams.” In *International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks*, New York, 305–14.

8.  Batory, Don, Jacob Neal Sarvela, and Axel Rauschmayer. 2004. “Scaling Step- Wise Refinement.” *IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering*. Vol. 30:6, Piscataway, NJ.

9.  Bliudze, S. and J. Sifakis. 2008. “Causal Semantics for the Algebra of Connectors.” In *Formal Methods for Components and Objects*, Sophia Antipolis, France, 179–99.

10.  Engels, G., J. M. Küster, R. Heckel, and L. Groenewegen. 2001. “A Methodology for Specifying and Analyzing Consistency of Object-Oriented Behavioral Models.” *ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes* 26 (5): 186–95.

11. Henzinger, T. and Sifakis, J. 2006. “The Embedded Systems Design Challenge.” In *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, Springer, 1–15.

12.  Clarke, E., A. Emerson, and J. Sifakis. 2009. “Model Checking: Algorithmic Verification and Debugging.” In *Communications of the ACM*, New York, 74–84.

13.  Schmidt, D. 2006. “Model-Driven Engineering.” In *IEEE* *Computer* *Society*, Piscataway, NJ, 25–32.

14.  Oxford English Dictionary. 2010. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.

15.  Wainer, G. and Mosterman, P. 2010. *Discrete-Event Modeling and Simulation: Theory and Applications*. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

16.  Fujimoto, R. M., K. Perumalla, A. Park, H. Wu, M. H. Ammar, and G. F. Riley. 2003. “Large-Scale Network Simulation: How Big? How Fast?” In *11th IEEE International Symposium on Modeling, Analysis, and Simulation of Computer and Telecommunications Systems*, 116–23. Orlando, FL.

17.  Varga, A. 2001. “The OMNeT++ Discrete Event Simulation System.” In *Proceedings of the European Simulation Multiconference (ESM)*. Prague, Czech Republic.

18.  Banks, J., J. Carson, B. Nelson, and D. Nicol. 2009. *Discrete-Event System Simulation.* 5th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.

19.  Rao, D. M. and P. A. Wilsey. 2002. “An Ultra-Large-Scale Simulation Framework.” *Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing* 62 (11): 1670–93.

20.  Riley, G. F. and Ammar, M. H. 2002. “Simulating Large Networks—How Big Is Big Enough?” In *Grand Challenges in Modeling and Simulation*.

21.  White, B., Lepreau, J., Stoller, L., Ricci, R., Guruprasad, S., Newbold, M., Hibler, M., Barb, C., and Joglekar, A. 2002. “An Integrated Experimental Environment for Distributed Systems and Networks.” In *5th Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI)*. Boston, MA.

22.  Hill, J., J. Edmondson, A. Gokhale, and D. C. Schmidt. 2010. “Tools for Continuously Evaluating Distributed System Qualities.” *IEEE Software*, Vol, 27:4, 65–71.

23.  Barham, P., et al. 2003. “Xen and the Art of Virtualization.” In *Proceedings of the 19th ACM Symposium on Operating System Principles*.

24.  Vahdat, A., et al. 2002. “Scalability and Accuracy in a Large-Scale Network Emulator.” In *Proceedings of the 5th Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation*, 271–84.

25.  Martin, D. E., McBrayer, T. J., and Wilsey, P. A. 1996. “WARPED: A Time Warp Simulation Kernel for Analysis and Application Development.” In *29th Hawaii Internetional Conference on System Sciences*.

26.  Rao, D. M. and P. A. Wilsey. 1999. “Simulation of Ultra-large Communication Networks.” In *Seventh IEEE International Symposium on Modeling, Analysis, and Simulation of Computer and Telecommunications Systems*, 112–9.

27.  Loyall, J., et al. 2009. “QoS Enabled Dissemination of Managed Information Objects in a Publish-Subscribe-Query Information Broker.” In *SPIE Defense Transformation and Net-Centric Systems Conference*. Orlando.

28.  Lee, S., Moon, B., Park, C., Kim, J., Kim, S. 2008. “A Case for Flash Memory SSD in Enterprise Database Applications.” In *ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data*. Vancouver.

29.  Caulfield, A. M., Grupp, L. M., Swanson, S. 2009. “Gordon: Using Flash Memory to Build Fast, Power-Efficient Clusters for Data-Intensive Applications.” In *14th International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems*. Washington, D.C.

30.  RUBiS. 2012. [http://rubis.objectweb.org](http://rubis.objectweb.org/).