[17.5 <--- ](17_5.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 18](18.md)

## 17.6. CONCLUDING REMARKS

Time dilation is a versatile emerging technology that helps developers and testers ease the validation of medium- to large-scale systems. Earlier work on DieCast has provided developers with CPU scheduling, network emulation, and disk emulation informed by time dilation mechanisms, resulting in accurate test runs on reduced hardware. DieCast does not require developers to remodel their business application logic, piggyback unrelated libraries, generate simulation glue code, or do many things required by other simulation frameworks and technologies typically used for large- to ultra large-scale target architectures. Instead, it allows for developers to compile their projects and code as they normally would do, harness the power of the Xen hypervisor—a stable, well supported VM manager for Linux—and run multiple VMs per machine in a way that more accurately reflects the true performance of a target system.

Though time dilation shows promise, it does not identify all types of problems that affect mission-critical distributed systems. This chapter explained how Ethernet problems, such as the Ethernet Capture Effect, may be masked by slowing down the host and not witnessing some of the race conditions that can appear in target systems because of queuing of timer firings and other related issues. Time dilation also currently has a higher memory footprint than some network simulators that are able to reduce memory requirements via shared data structures, operating system emulation, etc. While these network simulators might be useful to determine if the target system works if provided with certain operating systems or configurations and



**436**                                       Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

modeling of environments, implementations of time dilation such as DieCast allow developers to test their business logic for distributed or networked applications on actual operating systems with excellent approximations of time source progression, disk queuing, and network throughput and latency.

[17.5 <--- ](17_5.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 18](18.md)