[17 <--- ](17.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 19](19.md)

# 18. Simulation for Operator Training in Production Machinery

*Gerhard* *Rath*

- [18.1](18_1.md)  Introduction 440
  - 18.1.1  Ultra Flexible Reversing Mill 440

  - 18.1.2  Simulation for Operator Training 440

  - 18.1.3  Modeling. 441
  - 18.1.4  Real-Time Simulation. 443
  - 18.1.5  Game-Based Learning, Game Programming, and Simulation 443
- [18.2](18_2.md)  Simulation of Plant and Machinery 444
  - 18.2.1  Languages for Simulation 445

  - 18.2.2  Recent Developments and Trends. 446
- [18.3](18_3.md)  Simulator for Rolling Mill Operator Training. 446
  - 18.3.1  Requirement Analysis of the Training Simulator 447

  - 18.3.2  System Design of the Training Simulator. 448

  - 18.3.3  Reduction of Complexity. 451

    - 18.3.3.1  Hardware Expense 452
    - 18.3.3.2  Reduction of Possible Machine States. 452

    - 18.3.3.3  Reduction of States by the Control Program 453

    - 18.3.3.4  Depth of Simulation. 453
  - 18.3.4  Simulation Tool Selection and Program Coding 455

    - 18.3.4.1  Simulation Tool. 455
    - 18.3.4.2  Example Details 456
- [18.4](18_4.md)  Experiences With Simulation-Based Training. 457

## **REFERENCES**

1.  Pfeiler, H., N. Köck, J. Schröder, and L. Maestrutti. 2003. “The New Rail Mill of Voestalpine Schienen at Donawitz.” *MPT International* 26 (6): 40–4.

2. Page, R. L. 2000. “Brief History of Fligth Simulation.” In *SimTecT 2000 Proceedings,* pp. 11–7. Sydney.

3.  Perkins, T. 1985. “Simulation Technology in Operator Training. Full-Scope Plant- Specific Simulators Are Part of the New Reality.” *IAEA Bulletin* 27 (3): 18–24.

4.  Freedman, P. 2000. “New Drill Jumbo Operator Training Simulator.” *IEEE Canadian Review* 34: 16–8.

5.  Isermann, R., J. Schaffnit, and S. Sinsel. 1999. “Hardware-in-the:Loop Simulation for the Design and Testing of Engine-Control Systems.” *Control Engineering Practice* 7 (5): 643–53.

6.  Resmerita, S., P. Derler, W. Pree, and K. Butts. 2012. “The Validator Tool Suite: Filling the Gap Between Conventional Software-in-the-Loop and Hardware-in-the- Loop Simulation Environments.” In *Real-Time Simulation Technologies: Principles, Methodologies, and Applications,* edited by K. Popovici, and P. J. Mosterman. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

7.  Shahidehpour, M., H. Yamin, and Z. Li. 2002. *Market Operations in Electric Power Systems: Forecasting, Scheduling, and Risk Management*. New York: John Wiley & Sons.

8.  Haq, E., M. Rothleder, B. Moukaddem, S. Chowdhury, K. Abdul-Rahman, J. G. Frame, A. Mansingh, T. Teredesai, and N. Wang. 2009. “Use of a Grid Operator Training Simulator in Testing New Real-Time Market of California ISO.” In *IEEE PES Power & Energy Society General Meeting, Calgery, Alberta,* pp. 1–8.

9.  Issenberg¸ S. B., W. C. McGaghie, E. R. Petrusa, L. D. Gordon, and R. J. Scalese. 2005. “Features and Uses of High-Fidelity Medical Simulations That Lead to Effective Learning: A BEME Systematic Review.” *Medical Teacher* 27: 10–28.

10.  Hodgkinson, G. P., N. Daley, and R. Payne. 1995. “Knowledge of, and Attitudes towards, the Demographic Time Bomb.” *International* *Journal* *of* *Manpower.* *An* *Interdisciplinary* *Journal on Human Resources, Management & Labour Economics* 16 (8): 59–76.

11.  Lieberman, B. A. 2003. “The Art of Modeling, Part I: Constructing an Analytical Framework.” Accessed July 3rd 2010. [http://download.boulder.ibm.com/ibmdl/pub/](http://download.boulder.ibm.com/) [software/ ](http://download.boulder.ibm.com/)dw/rationaledge/aug03/fmodelingbl.pdf.

12.  Seidl, E., C. Spielmann, and G. Rath. June 2010. Personal Discussion. Andritz AG.

13.  Lieberman, B. A. 2007. *The Art of Software Modeling*, pp. 17. Boca Raton: Auerbach Publications.

14.  Rowell, D. and D. N. Wormley. 1997. *System Dynamics: An Introduction*. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

15.  Colgren, R. 2006. *Basic* *MATLAB,* *Simulink* *And* *Stateflow*. Reston, VA: AIAA American Institute of Aeronautics & Ast.

16.  White, S. A., D. Miers, and L. Fischer. 2008. *BPMN Modeling and Reference Guide— Understanding and Using BPMN*. Lighthouse Pt, FL: Future Strategies.

17.  Kopetz, H. 1997. *Real-Time Systems: Design Principles for Distributed Embedded Applications*. Netherlands: Kluwer Academic Publishers.

18.  Kweon, S. K., K. G. Shin, and Q. Zheng. 1999. “Statistical Real-Time Communication over Ethernet for Manufacturing Automation Systems.” In *Proceedings of the 5th IEEE Real-Time Technology and Applications Symposium,* pp. 192–202. Vancouver, Canada.

19.  Winmod. “Real Time Simulation Center for Automation.” Accessed July 10th 2010. [http://www.winmod.de](http://www.winmod.de/).

20.  Rosen, A. 2009. *E-learning 2.0: Proven Practices and Emerging Technologies to Achieve Results*. New York: Amacom.

21.  Sauvé, L., L. Renaud, D. Kaufman, and J. S. Marquis. 2007. “Distinguishing between Games and Simulations: A Systematic Review.” *Journal of Educational Technology & Society* 10 (3): 247–56.

22.  Garris, R., R. Ahlers, and J. E. Driskell. “Games, Motivation and Learning: A Research and Practice Model.” *Simulation and Gaming* 33 (4): 441–67.

23.  Kickmeier-Rust, M. D. 2009. “Talking Digital Educational Games.” In *Proceedings of the 1st International Open Workshop on Intelligent Personalization and Adaptation in Digital Educational Games*, pp. 55–66. Graz, Austria.

24.  Pannese, L. and M. Carlesi. 2007. “Games and Learning Come Together to Maximise Effectiveness: The Challenge of Bridging the Gap.” *British Journal of Educational Technology* 38 (3): 438–54.

25.  Schiffler, A. 2006. “A Heuristic Taxonomy of Computer Games.” Accessed June 10th 2010. [http://www.ferzkopp.net/joomla/content/view/77/15/](http://www.ferzkopp.net/).

26.  McShaffry, M. 2009. *Game Coding Complete*. Boston: Course Technology.

27.  Dalmau, D. S.-C. 2003. *Core Techniques and Algorithms in Game Programming*. Indianapolis, IN: New Riders Publishing.

28.  Rehmann, A. J. and M. C. Reynolds. 1995. *A Handbook of Flight Simulation Fidelity Requirements for Human Factors Research*. Technical report, CSERIAC. Springfield, Virginia: National Technical Information Service.

29.  Klatt, K.-U. 2009. Trainingssimulation. *ATP* 51 (1): 66–71.

30.  Mewes, J. and G. Rath. July 2010. Personal Discussion, CEO of Mewes & Partner, Berlin.

31.  Bullinger, H.-J. and J. Warschat. 1996. *Concurrent Simultaneous Engineering Systems*. London: Springer.

32.  Parr, E. A. 2003. *Programmable Controllers: An Engineer’s Guide*. 3rd ed. Oxford: Newnes.

33.  Bolton, W. 2009. *Programmable Controllers*. 5th ed. Oxford: Newnes.

34.  Lewis, R. W. 1996. *Programming Industrial Control Systems Using IEC 1131-3*. The Institution of Electrical Engineers.

35.  MathWorks. 2010. “Simulink® PLC Coder™.” Accessed July 3rd 2010. [http://www](http://www.mathworks.com/products/sl-plc-coder/)

36.  Pilone, D. and N. Pitman. 2005. *UML 2.0 in a Nutshell*. Cambridge, MA: OReilly & Associates.

37.  Borel, É. 1913. “Statistical Mechanics and Irreversibility (Mécanique Statistique et Irréversibilité).” Journal of Physics (*Journal of Physique.*) 3 (5): 189–96.

38.  Crosbie, R. 2012. “Real-Time Simulation Using Hybrid Models.” In *Real-Time Simulation Technologies: Principles, Methodologies, and Applications,* edited by K. Popovici, and P. J. Mosterman. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

39.  Hodgson, J., R. Hyde, and S. Sharma. 2012. “Systematic Derivation of Hybrid System Models for Hydraulic Systems.” In *Real-Time Simulation Technologies: Principles, Methodologies, and Applications,* edited by K. Popovici, and P. J. Mosterman. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.