[18 <--- ](18.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 18.2](18_2.md)

## 18.1. INTRODUCTION

After a short description of the actual simulation problem, a brief overview of past and present trends in simulation-based operator training is given. The third subsection shows some important aspects of modeling from the view of software engineering. For simulation of fast physical systems such as machines, considerations of real-time aspects are important. Finally, a look at the impact of modern computer games to the development of simulation software is useful before starting the modeling work.

 

**18.1.1**            **U****ltra** **F****lexible** **r****eversing** **M****ill**

Voestalpine Schienen GmbH is a leading manufacturer of rails and is exploiting a new ultra flexible reversing mill consisting of three identical mill stands [1]. The automa- tion system of the mill provides all necessary control for production, which includes the basic sequential and closed-loop control of the movements of the mechanical equipment and the technological process control such as minimum tension control.

In normal operation, the complex roll exchange is a process of maintenance and runs fully automated under supervision of the control system. With the help of hydraulic and electric systems, three systems of horizontal and vertical rolls are exchanged. The process goes through about one hundred steps and requires hun- dreds of actuators and an even larger amount of sensors. Sometimes a failure in the system occurs, and the automatic cylce stops. Then, after a repair, the steps must be carried out without automated sequencing. The danger of making a mistake and damaging some components is high. Such mistakes increase the downtime of the machine significantly. More and regular sessions with a systematic training program are necessary for faster performance. A long period of continuous production, which is of course a desirable advantage, turns out to be a problem for the maintenance personnel, since they have fewer opportunities to train and hone their skills. This was the reason for the development of the training simulator.

 

**18.1.2**             **s****iMUlation For** **o****perator** **t****raining**

The need for training simulation emerged when human mistakes during the opera- tion of technical devices started causing harm to people. Beginning with mechanical simulators in the first decades of aviation, the first computer simulations appeared in the 1960s. Flight simulators for the training of operators of airplanes [2] and



Simulation for Operator Training in Production Machinery               **441**

 

spacecraft were indispensable. In addition to modeling and simulation, pedagogical frameworks based on training modules were developed to lead the trainee step-by- step through the basics of operation.

The high cost of such equipment is why such simulators were introduced very late to industrial equipment. Nuclear power plants with their high risks were the first to see computer simulation employed [3]. The chemical industry and fossil power plants followed. Recent progress in computer technology, hardware, and software have reduced the cost and enabled the use of simulation also in industries with lower risk and impact, such as heavy machinery [4].

While conventional training requires access to resources dedicated to production (machine, plant, people), simulation on the computer reduces the danger caused by mis- takes of the trainees, and also the cost of potential damage. Beside these points, making the original system available for training reduces the production capacity and is a more recent argument in favor of OTS. For accurate simulation, models for the physical or chemical processes are controlled by a replica of the deployed control system. Having the simulation in a loop with a piece of original hardware is referred to as HIL [5,6].

Other fields of training simulation emerge for highly complex systems. For exam- ple, the optimization of the market of electrical power supply [7] necessitates opti- mal operation of the power grid [8]. For medical appliances, training simulation is also well established [9]. A demographic problem, the retirement of aged experts that results in a lack of training facilities for the apprentices, is proposed to be solved with training in simulation [10].

Embedded simulation is a recent development in military appliances to bring training closer to high fidelity environments. When not in action, weapons can tem- porarily switch to a simulation mode for training. This allows training not only in training centers and classrooms but also in the actual place of operation. The envi- ronment is more realistic and training can occur more often during standby times. Civil equivalents of this technique are conceivable.

 

**18.1.3**             **M****odeling**

Before a simulation of a system can be carried out, a model must be established. Different definitions for a model exist in several standards or books; a useful one can be found in Lieberman [11]:

A model can be defined as the simplification of a complex system for the purpose of communicating specific details.

**Definition of a model**

*Lieberman*

The emphasis should be on the word “communication,” telling us that the purpose of a successful modeling process is not to create a model, but to inform a hope- fully well-defined group of people about some selected details of the system under study that is modeled. A model should not be built until the modeler understands the intended audience. The same author describes an important property of a model:

 

A model operates much like a lens: It focuses attention on items while obscuring or omitting everything else!



**442**                                       Real-Time Simulation Technologies

​                          

​            A momuch      like a lens: It focuses      a items while omitting everything else!            







 

**FIGURE 18.1** Focusing effect of a model. (Adopted from Lieberman, B. A. “The Art of Modeling, Part I: Constructing an Analytical Framework,” 2003, accessed July 3, 2010, [http://](http://download.boulder.ibm.com/) [download.boulder.ibm.com/ibmdl/pub/software/dw/rationaledge/aug03/fmodelingbl.pdf](http://download.boulder.ibm.com/).)

 

 

Figure 18.1 explains this property. We and our customer have to accept that a model cannot represent all details of the real system. Trying this, we would fail.

If a system should be modeled for different purposes, different modeling pro- cedures, methods, and tools are applied [12]. In general, separate models for the same plant may be required for, for example, presentation of a machine to sales- people, investigating technical details of the plant behavior, optimizing production and logistic properties, and training of operators.

After the requirement analysis for the modeling development is completed, the design may follow one of the strategies:

 

\1.   Top-down

\2.   Bottom-up

\3.   Inside-out

\4.   Hardest first

 

These are the same strategies we know from the software development process. The application of the first three strategies is described in Lieberman [13]. For the steel rolling mill project described in this chapter, the “hardest first” approach had to be applied, since the behavior of some critical parts of the system were not known exactly and had to be explored first.

Before starting the modeling process, a classification is helpful to select the best- suited language or tool for the actual purpose. A useful classification may be accord- ing to [Figure 18.2](#_bookmark96). For *continuous models*, time is a primary simulation variable. This is the way we describe dynamic systems starting from ordinary differential equations (ODE), applying Laplace transform and transfer functions [14]. *Time- based models* running on a computer are inherently of a discrete nature. This means that modeling of dynamic systems requires the z-transform to obtain digital transfer functions. Modern modeling languages such as Simulink® [15] are capable of mask- ing this difference and even allow running discrete-time and continuous-time mod- els concurrently within one system. This simplifies the modeling task and saves us from working with z-transform or similar techniques. *Event-based models* are used when the system primarily reacts to events happening at certain time points, and the state of the system does not change over time between two subsequent events. Finite state machines (FSM) are one example of a basic method to implement such a model. Again, it is state of the art to have continuous-time, discrete-time, and event-driven



Simulation for Operator Training in Production Machinery              **443**

​                                                                                   

​            Simulation model            

​            <<is a>>             Continuous model            

​            <<is a>>             Discrete model            

​            <<uses>>            

​            <<is a>>            

​            Time-based model      Also called: Sampling system            

​            <<is a>>            

​            <<is a>>             Process-based model            

​            Event-based model            







**FIGURE 18.2** Classification of mathematical models for simulation.

 

 

models combined in a single computer model. Finally, *process-based models* were developed to map workflow processes of practical value into a simulation model, for example, Business Process Modeling Notation [16].

 

**18.1.4**             **r****eal****-t****iMe** **s****iMUlation**

A simulator for operator training requires a real-time response. This means the time behavior of the simulation must match with the physical system. The definition “real time” demands that the computations that are necessary in a given time interval can be completed in this specified time interval [17]. Not only the calculation of the models, but also data communication must abide by this restriction [18]. Usually, the real-time property is obtained by the utilization of a dedicated operating system. In computers for human–machine interface (HMI), often a standard operating system with some real-time extension is used. Even if the “hard” real-time property cannot be guaranteed, such systems are proven to work properly as simulators. The chosen envi- ronment for the actual steel rolling mill project, Winmod®, is one of this type [19].

 

**18.1.5**             **g****aMe****-b****ased** **l****e****a****r****n****i****n****g****,** **g****aMe** **p****r****o****g****r****a****MM****i****n****g****,** **and** **s****iMUlation**

Modern computer games are an important pacemaker for developments in the com- puter industry. So it is worth it to take a look at game programming when investigat- ing the facilities of modern simulation.

Game-based learning (GBL) is an integrated part of eLearning [20]. Even if no GBL is intended, the target audience, the trainees on the simulator, may have grown up with computer games and acquired a different cognitive character (“gamer gen- eration” [21]). Games are applied in learning environments to increase the motiva- tion. Fantasy, rules/goals, stimulus, challenge, mystery, control, and feedback are the characteristics of a game that augment the learning effect [22].



**444**                                       Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

Exploring the possibilities of new media causes enthusiasm, but one must be cau- tious about the eLearning hype. A game is only a game in a narrower sense, if there is no purpose behind it [23], and people who often play games are more critical about serious games [24].

For the designer of a training simulator, the following aspects may be important. **Playing the Simulation Game.** A simulation itself is to an extent a game that models parts of the actual world [25]. The topic of simulation for training is given by the actual task, but for presentation, visualization, etc., we can gain inspiration from

eLearning and GBL on how to design an attractive environment for the simulation.

**Trainer or GBL Environment.** Most OTS for industrial production systems require a trainer to guide through a session. This trainer usually observes and rates the session. If the reaction to a fault needs to be trained, the trainer provokes a failure at a certain instant. Substituting this trainer with software would be a step towards GBL. **Game Programming.** For the developer of simulation software, game program- ming is a rich source of methods and techniques. All required design patterns on how to create successfully virtual worlds for a trainee are developed and published. For example, work has been done on how to design the architecture for simulation in real- time and visualize it in 3D [26]. To model the dynamic behavior of game characters or machines, work that employs FSM, parallel or nondeterministic automata can be found [27]. Scripting techniques that simplify rich but complex programming languages as

those employed in design patterns are ideally suited for industrial programmers.

[18 <--- ](18.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 18.2](18_2.md)