[18.1 <--- ](18_1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 18.3](18_3.md)

## 18.2. SIMULATION OF PLANT AND MACHINERY

Because of high costs, the application of simulation has been limited to industry and organizations with a high level of risk. Today simulation is also becoming prevalent in the production industry. Shorter product cycles, flexible production, risk reduction, and more competition give a good return on investment to simulation techniques.

This highly dynamic process is still ongoing, so the vocabulary of simulation is not standardized yet for the production industry. In contrast, for flight simulators, the requirements were defined much earlier [28]. The following classification and keywords are based on some definitions of the German chemical industry [29], on the specifications of a supplier for simulation systems [19], and on personal discussions [30].

**Control System Tester.** Such simulators are used to test the function of the control systems; this is a verification of the control software.

**Process Trainer.** Process trainer simulations are not used to verify the function of the automation system, but focus on the simulation of process dynamics. The trainees learn to understand a complex, physical, or chemical process.

**Virtual Startup.** The control system can be tested and commissioned while connected to virtual machinery. This is designated a virtual startup. Since the control system is the same that will later be working with the physical plant, it should be mentioned that, from the viewpoint of the control system, it is a real startup [30]!

**Factory Acceptance Test (FAT).** A simulation model of a complex production plant and its control system can be subjected to a FAT. Logistic chains, dynamic and logical properties, capacities etc. can be verified with the participation of the customer before delivery and assembly of the actual system. This is progress in the sense



Simulation for Operator Training in Production Machinery               **445**

 

of “Simultaneous Engineering” [31]. Mistakes in the requirement specifications, planning mistakes, and critical states of the machinery are detected without risk in an early phase and save time during the startup of the plant.

**Functional Validation.** With the customer involved, the software is checked against the requirements. It is not the goal here to find programming errors, which should be already removed by verification, but misunderstandings between the supplier and the customer [30]. Without simulation, usually this validation is carried out during commissioning of the plant. With the help of simulation, it is possible to correct such errors much earlier.

**Design and Planning.** In an early project phase, simulation allows us to find mistakes in planning caused by incompatibilities between different engineering departments. For example, the variables used for controller programming may not correspond to the inputs and outputs as defined by the electric engineers. Without simulation, such errors can be detected only very late during the assembly or the startup phase.

**Instruction and Training.** OTS work with a replica of the automation system. Training and instruction can proceed without the physical plant. Usually this is used to shorten the startup of the actual plant. OTS are working in the loop with the actual process control system (HIL). It is desired to include defined scenarios of plant failures (“what if” scenarios [29]).

**Maintenance and Optimization.** After the startup of the real plant, the simulation helps optimize parameters and find causes of problems. The simulation can run parallel to the physical plant and avoids the necessity of interaction with and perhaps disturbance of production.

**Presentation.** A virtual presentation of the plant can support the salespeople and brings advantages over the competitors. Of course, the quality of the presentation is more important than the technical accuracy.

It is desired that one system should provide all these features, which is the goal of developers of modern simulators [19].

In production machinery, it is not possible to obtain a fully detailed physical fidelity of simulation since the reaction times are much shorter than in chemical processes. This is shown in an example in Section 18.3.3 and is one of the reasons why a certain component is modeled for different purposes with different tools [12].

 

**18.1.1**             **l****angUages For** **s****iMUlation**

The problem to choose the most suitable language for a simulation of an industrial equipment is closely related to the selection of languages for the electronic control of the system; consequently, at first a look to these languages is required.

The control of machinery and plants in the production industry has been done with electronic systems since the 1980s. Before this, relay control was the state of the art. Free programmable systems (PLC, programmable logic control) emerged in the 1990s [32,33]. Those systems provided a restricted command set for programming, on the one hand to minimize the danger of mistakes and on the other hand to guarantee that persons different from the programmer could read, understand, and modify the code. From this point of view, programmers for industrial systems must be specialists in the specific process, more so than in ultimate software techniques.



**446**                                       Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

Standardization of languages led to Continuous Function Chart and the languages defined in the IEC 1131 standard becoming the most important representatives [34]. The languages are based on graphical concepts such as electric circuit diagrams and FSM and on textual concepts such as assembler, Basic, and Pascal. Object orientation is implemented to a limited extent. New objects may be created “by composition,” which means putting existing objects together to create new ones. Multiple

inheritance and dynamic binding are not used.

The basic idea for all these restrictions and simplifications is to construct control programs that can be grasped by other process experts independent from their writers.

Now the same also applies for simulation programs. Machine and process experts should be enabled to develop models and their behavior, and the visualization and real-time monitoring of the simulated process. For example, MathWorks recently published an extenstion for Simulink to create IEC-1131- compatible programs [35].

The choice of the language for simulation is a trade-off between the versatility of a modern computer language and the maintainability of the software by people who are more process experts than software experts. For the actual project of the rolling mill simulator, the selected system [19] provides a graphical programming suite similar to Function Block Diagram, which is one of the languages defined in the IEC 1131 standard.

 

**18.1.2**              **r****ecent** **d****evelopMents** **and** **t****rends**

All components of control systems for production machinery must provide interfaces to supplemental products of other manufacturers, for example, standard fieldbus systems or OPC communication (OLE for process control). Products for simulation must follow this trend since for different purposes different simulation environments are established.

Suppliers generate many documents to design a system. The ideal case is to generate a simulation completely automated from these documents with a minimum of further programming effort.

In regard to operator training, a simulation must provide possibilities to train exceptional situations. For example, the nuclear power industry has well-defined training scenarios for exceptions. Many industrial simulation systems work with a trainer who provokes an error during the session or defines the errors immediately before the start. Script-based or FSM techniques should make it easier to define training scenarios.

[18.1 <--- ](18_1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 18.3](18_3.md)