[18.3 <--- ](18_3.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 19](19.md)

## 18.4 EXPERIENCES WITH SIMULATION-BASED TRAINING

A training simulator was developed for the roll replacement procedure in a steel rolling mill. During a test period of several months, the effect of the training was observed. The most important criterion for the success of a training simulator is the acceptance by the personnel, which was excellent in the actual project. Periodic training sessions were carried out using the equipment since its introduction. After a period of some months, the following benefits became apparent and showed that the simulator meets expectations:

1.   More training can take place than on the physical machine that is dedicated to production.

2.   Training sessions can take place in a planned manner at scheduled times and not at arbitrary times during a production stop.

3.   Training sessions on the simulator reduce the risk of damage to the physical machine.

4.   The training program is standardized and contains all essential exercises. In contrast, on the deployed machine, seldom are all desired functions operable at one time.

5.   Operators act faster and more accurate after being trained on the simulator. Resuming production after a fault is faster than before the introduction of the simulator.

6.   Sometimes the cause of a failure in the complex system remains unclear. Simulation allows experimental repetitions to find the cause of such errors.

7.   New components of the control software can be tested on the simulator before their implementation on the controller of the deployed machine.

8.   The simulator helps in understanding the functions of the control system. It can also be applied for training of control engineers.

9.   Software bugs in the actual control program were found, even severe ones.

Minor mistakes in the HMI could be detected, for example, wrong labels or swapped signals.

[18.3 <--- ](18_3.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 19](19.md)