[18 <--- ](18.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 20](20.md)

# 19. Real-Time Simulation Platform for Controller Design, Test, and Redesign

*Savas¸* *S¸* *ahin,* *Yalçın* *Is¸* *ler,* *and* *Cüneyt* *Güzelis¸*

- [19.1](19_1.md)  Introduction. 
- [19.2](19_2.md)  Structure and Functions of the CDTRP. 
- [19.3](19_3.md)  Taxonomy of Real-Time Simulation Modes Realized by CDTRP. 
- [19.4](19_4.md)  Categorization of CDTRP Modes Based on Their Suitability for Design, Test, and Redesign Stages. 
- [19.5](19_5.md)  Implementation of the Plant Emulator Card with PIC Microcontroller. 
- [19.6](19_6.md)  Experimental Setup of the Developed CDTRP 
- [19.7](19_7.md)  Verification and Validation of the CDTRP Based on Benchmark Plants  
  - 19.7.1  Benchmark Plants Implemented in CDTRP for Verification of Operating Modes  
  - 19.7.2  Controller Design, Test, and Redesign by the CDTRP on a Physical Plant: The DC Motor Case. 
    - 19.7.2.1  Implementation of the Physical Plant Together with Its Physical Actuator and Sensor Units 
    - 19.7.2.2  Identification of DC Motor to Obtain a Model to Be Simulated and Emulated    
    - 19.7.2.3  Recreating the Disturbance and Parameter Perturbation Effects 
    - 19.7.2.4  Controller Design–Test–Redesign Process 
    - 19.7.2.5  The Simulation, Emulation, and Physical Measurement Results Obtained along the Entire Design Process Implemented by CDTRP. 
    - 19.7.2.6  Recreating the Parameter Perturbations in the S-E-R Mode. 
    - 19.7.2.7  Recreating Noise Disturbance in the S-E-R Mode. 
    - 19.7.2.8  Response to Single Short-in-Time Large-in-Amplitude Pulse Disturbance in the S-E-R and S-R-R Modes. 
  - 19.7.3  Investigation of Reliable Operating Frequency of Mixed Modes of CDTRP: Coupled Oscillators as Benchmarks 
    - 19.7.3.1  Analog Hardware Implementation of Synchronized Lorenz Chaotic Systems. 
    - 19.7.3.2  Synchronization of (Lorenz Transmitter) Emulator with a Physical Analog (Lorenz Receiver) Plant. 
    - 19.7.3.3  Synchronization of the (Lorenz Receiver) Emulator with Physical Analog (Lorenz Transmitter) Hardware 
    - 19.7.3.4  Synchronization of (Lorenz Transmitter) Simulator with (Lorenz Receiver) Emulator 
    - 19.7.35  Effect of Feedback on Chaotic Synchronization. 
    - 19.7.3.6  Synchronization of (Linear Undamped Pendulum Receiver) Simulator/Emulator with (Signal Generator Transmitter) Simulator. 
    - 19.7.3.7  Synchronization of (Linear Undamped Pendulum) Receiver Emulator with (Signal Generator) Transmitter 
    - 19.7.3.8  Synchronization of a Physical Analog (Lorenz Receiver) Hardware with Transmitter Emulator. 
- [19.8](19_8.md)  Conclusions 

## **REFERENCES**

1.  Doyle, J. C., B. A. Francis, and A. R. Tannenbaum. 1992. *Feedback Control Theory.* New York: Macmillan.

2.  Goodwin, G. C., S. F. Graebe, and M. E. Salgado. 2001. *Control System Design*. Engelwood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

3.  Mandal, A. K. 2006. *Introduction to Control Engineering Modeling, Analysis and Design*. New Delhi, India: New Age International Limited Publishers.

4.  Keel, L., J. Rego, and S. Bhattacharyya. 2003. “A New Approach to Digital PID Controller Design.” *IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control* 48 (4): 687–92.

5.  Yamamoto, T., K. Takao, and T. Yamada. 2009. “Design of a Data-Driven PID Controller.” *IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology* 17 (1): 29–39.

6.  Mehta, S. and J. Chiasson. 1998. “Nonlinear Control of a Series DC Motor: Theory and Experiment.” *IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics* 45 (1): 134–41.

7.  Pellegrinetti, G. and J. Bentsman. 1996. “Nonlinear Control Oriented Boiler Modeling—A Benchmark Problem for Controller Design.” *IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology* 4 (1): 57–63.

8.  Güvenç, B. A. and L. Güvenç. 2002. “Robust Two Degree-of-Freedom Add-on Controller Design for Automatic Steering.” *IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology* 10: 137–48.

9.  Lin, F. J. 1997. “Real-Time IP Position Controller Design with Torque Feedforward Control for PM Synchronous Motor.” *IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics* 44: 398–407.

10.  Rodriguez, F. and A. Emadi. 2007. “A Novel Digital Control Technique for Brushless DC Motor Drives.” *IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics* 54 (5): 2365–73.

11.  Betin, F., A. Sivert, A. Yazidi, and G.-A. Capolino. 2007. “Determination of Scaling Factors for Fuzzy Logic Control Using the Sliding-Mode Approach: Application to Control of a DC Machine Drive.” *IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics* 54: 296.

12.  Boyd, S. P. and C. H. Barratt. 1991. *Linear Controller Design: Limits of Performance*. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

13.  Ziegler, J. G. and N. B. Nichols. 1942. “Optimum Setting for Automatic Controllers.” *ASME Transactions* 64: 759–68.

14.  Ogata, K. 1997. *Modern Control Engineering*. 3rd ed. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

15.  Bishop, R. H. 2008. *The Mechatronics Handbook*. 2nd ed. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

16.  Zeigler, B. P. and J. Kim. 1993. “Extending the DEVS-Scheme Knowledge-Based Simulation Environment for Real-Time Event-Based Control.” *IEEE Transactions on Robotics and Automation* 9 (3): 351–6.

17.  Maclay, D. 1997. “Simulation Gets into the Loop.” *Institute* *of* *Electrical* *and* *Electronics* *Engineers* 43 (3): 109–12.

18.  Bacic, M. 2005. “On Hardware-in-the-Loop Simulation.” *Proceedings of the 44th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, and the European Control Conference 2005*, Seville, Spain, December 12–15, 2005, pp. 3194–98.

19.  Isermann, R., J. Schaffnit, and S. Sinsel. 1999. “Hardware-in-the-Loop Simulation for the Design and Testing of Engine-Control Systems.” *Control Engineering Practice* 7(5): 643–53.

20.  Scharpf, J., R. Hoepler, and J. Hillyard. 2012. “Real Time Simulation in the Automotive Industry.” In *Real-Time Simulation Technologies: Principles, Methodologies, and Applications*, edited by K. Popovici and P. J. Mosterman. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press. ISBN 9781439846650.

21.  Xu, X. and E. Azarnasab. 2012. “Progressive Simulation-Based Design for Networked Real-Time Embedded Systems”. In *Real-Time Simulation Technologies: Principles, Methodologies, and Applications*, edited by K. Popovici and P. J. Mosterman. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press. ISBN 9781439846650.

22.  Facchinetti, A. and M. Mauri. 2009. “Hardware-in-the-Loop Overhead Line Emulator for Active Pantograph Testing.” *IEEE* *Transactions* *on* *Industrial* *Electronics* 56 (10): 4071–78.

23.  Steurer, M., C. Edrington, M. Sloderbeck, W. Ren, and J. Langston. 2009. “A Megawatt- Scale Power Hardware-in-the-Loop Simulation Setup for Motor Drives.” *IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics*, PP 1-1. doi: 10.1109/TIE.2009.2036639.

24.  Li, H., M. Steurer, K. Shi, S. Woodruff, and D. Zhang. 2006.“Development of a Unified Design, Test, and Research Platform for Wind Energy Systems Based on Hardware-in- the-Loop Real-Time Simulation.” *IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics* 53 (4): 1144–51.

25.  Dufour, C., T. Ishikawa, S. Abourida, and J. Belanger. 2007. “Modern Hardware-In-the- Loop Simulation Technology for Fuel Cell Hybrid Electric Vehicles.” *Proceeding of the 2007 IEEE Vehicle Power and Propulsion Conference (VPPC-07)*, Arlington, Texas, September 9–12, 2007, pp. 432–39.

26.  Hanselmann, H. 1996. “Hardware-in-the-Loop Simulation Testing and its Integration into a CACSD Toolset.” *The IEEE International Symposium on Computer Aided Control System Design*, Dearborn, MI, 152–6.

27.  Lu, B., X. Wu, H. Figueroa, and A. Monti. 2007. “A Low-Cost Real-Time Hardware- in-the-Loop Testing Approach of Power Electronics Controls.” *IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics* 54: 919.

28.  Smith, R. S. and J. C. Doyle. 1992. “Model Validation: A Connection Between Robust Control and Identification.” *IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control* 37: 942–52.

29.  Balcı, O. 2003. “Verification, Validation, and Certification of Modeling and Simulation Applications.” In *Proceedings of the 2003 Winter Simulation Conference*, ed. S. Chick, P. J. Sanchez, E. Ferrin, and D. J. Morrice, Piscataway, New Jersey: IEEE. Vol. 1, pp. 150–8.

30.  Sargent, R. G. 2004. “Validation and Verification of Simulation Models.” In *Proceedings* *of the 2004 w*.*inter simulation conference*. Washington, D. C., pp. 17–28.

31.  Özer, M., Y. Is ler, and H. Özer. 2004. “A Computer Software for Simulating Single- Compartmental Model of Neurons.” *Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine* 75 (1): 51–7.

32.  Suykens, J. A. K., J. Vandewalle, and B. De Moor. 1996. *Artificial Neural Networks for Modeling and Control of Non-Linear Systems.* Boston, MA: Kluwer.

33.  Spooner, J. T., M. Maggiore, R. Ordonez, and K. M. Passino. 2002. *Stable Adaptive Control and Estimation for Nonlinear Systems: Neural and Fuzzy Approximator Techniques.* New York: Wiley.

34.  Narendra, K. S. 1996. “Neural Networks for Control Theory and Practice.” *Proceedings of the IEEE* 84 (10): 1385–406.

35.  Fukuda, T. and T. Shibata. 1992. “Theory and Applications of Neural Networks for Industrial Control Systems.”. *IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics* 39: 472–91.

36.       S ahin, S., M. Ölmez, and Y. Is ler. 2010. “Microcontroller-Based Experimental Setup and Experiments for SCADA Education.” *IEEE Transactions* *on* *Education* 53 (3): 437–44.

37.  Tarte, Y., Y. Q. Chen, W. Ren, and K. L. Moore. 2006. “Fractional Horsepower Dynamometer: A General Purpose Hardware-in-the-Loop Real-Time Simulation Platform for Nonlinear Control Research and Education.” *Proceedings of the 45th IEEE Conference on Decision & Control*, Manchester Grand Hyatt Hotel San Diego, CA, USA, December 13–15, 2006, pp. 3912–17.

38.  Wang, L. F., K. C. Tan, and V. Pralzlad. 2000. “Developing Khepera Robot Applications in a Webots Environment.” *Proceedings of the International Symposium on Human* *Micromechatr*.*onics and Human Science*, October 22–25, Nagoya, Japan, pp. 71–6.

39.  S ahin, S., Y. Is ler, and C. Güzelis . 2010. “A Microcontroller Based Test Platform for Controller Design.” *IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics 2010: ISIE’2010*, July 4–7, 2010, 36–41. Bari/Italy.

40.  S ahin, S. and C. Güzelis . 2010. “Dynamical Feedback Chaotification Method with Application on DC Motor.” *IEEE Antennas and Propagation Magazine* 52 (6): 222–33.

41.  Ibrahim, D. 2006. *Microcontroller Based Applied Digital Control.* West Sussex: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

42.  Narendra, K. S. and S. Mukhopadhyay. 1997. “Adaptive Control Using Neural Networks and Approximate Models.” *IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks* 8 (3): 475–85.

43.  Slotine, J. J. E. and W. Li. 1991. *Applied Nonlinear Control.* Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.

44.  Khalil, H. 1996. *Nonlinear Systems*. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.

45.  Spong, M., K. Khorasani, and P. V. Kokotovic. 1987. “An Integral Manifold Approach to the Feedback Control of Flexible Joint Robots.” *IEEE Journal Robotic and Automatics* 291–300.

46.  Abdollahi, F., H. A. Talebi, and R. V. Patel. 2006. “A Stable Neural Network-Based Observer with Application to Flexible-Joint Manipulators.” *IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks* 17: 118.

47.  Ghorbel, F., J. Y. Hung, and M. W. Spong. 1989. “Adaptive Control of Flexible Joint Manipulators.” *IEEE Control Systems Magazine* 9: 9–13.

48.  Lewis, F. L., D. M. Dawson, and C. T. Abdallah. 2004. *Robot Manipulator Control: Theory and Practice*. New York, NY: Marcel Dekker.

49.  Micera, S., A. M. Sabatini, and P. Dario. “Adaptive Fuzzy Control of Electrically Stimulated Muscles for Arms Movements.” *Medical and Biological Engineering Computing* 37: 680–85.

50.  Cuomo, K. M. and A. V. Oppenheim. 1993. “Circuit Implementation of Synchronized Chaos with Applications to Communications.” *Physics Review Letter* 71 (1): 65–8.

51.  Wang, L. 2009. *Model Predictive Control System Design and Implementation Using MATLAB*. London: Springer.

52.  Astrom, K. J. and T. Hagglund. 1995. *PID Controllers: Theory, Design, and Tuning.* 2nd ed. Research Triangle Park, NC: Instrument Society of America.

53.  Chien, K. L., J. A. Hrones, and J. B. Reswick. 1952. “On the Automatic Control of Generalized Passive Systems.” *Transactions ASME* 74: 175–85.

54.  Craig, J. J. 1986. *Introduction to Robotics: Mechanics and Control*. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.

55.  Hsia, T. C. S., “A New Technique for Robust Control of Servo Systems.” *IEEE Transactions On Industrial. Electronics* 36: 1–7.

56.  Cuomo, K. M., A. V. Oppenheim, and S. H. Strogatz. “Synchronization of Lorenz-Based Chaotic Circuits with Applications to Communications.” *IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems II* 40: 626–33.

57.  Paul, H. 2009. “Build a Lorenz Attractor.” (2009, August 10). [Online]. Available: [http://](http://frank.harvard.edu/) [frank.harvard.edu/~paulh/misc/lorenz.htm](http://frank.harvard.edu/).