[19.1 <--- ](19_1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 19.3](19_3.md)

## 19.2. STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE CDTRP

The CDTRP comprises four main units, which are a real-time simulator running on a PC, a real-time plant emulator realized in a plant emulator card, a hardware periph- eral unit for recreating a physical environment for the plant emulator, and a GUI on the PC that manages the entire platform. The structure and the interconnection of the subunits of CDTRP are depicted in Figure 19.1. The first unit is the software simula- tor implemented on the PC. It aims to simulate the controller, the plant, and/or the peripheral unit components depending on the operating modes of the platform (i.e., it simulates, for instance, the plant if it is active in the chosen mode of operation). The simulation program consists of MATLAB® 7.04 code and it requires the control- ler algorithm and plant model as MATLAB code. The simulator is designed to run essentially in real time; however, it can run in any time step faster or slower than real time, which may be preferred depending on the application.

The second unit is the plant emulator card whose core is the PIC microcontroller 18F452. The microcontroller is devoted to emulate the controller, the plant, and/or the peripheral unit components depending on the operating modes of the platform. The plant emulator card also possesses digital and analog interfaces for the communica- tion of the plant emulator with the other units of CDTRP (i.e., the GUI and the hard- ware peripheral unit card). The PIC is programmed by Custom Computer Services C Program Compiler Version 4.084 software run on the PC before installing it on the plant emulator card, which allows the PIC software to be managed by the GUI and to communicate with the PC and the hardware peripheral unit card. Note that the details on the hardware realization of the emulator card are given in Section 19.5.

The third unit of the CDTRP, that is, the hardware peripheral unit card, is the most flexible part of the platform: depending on the application, it contains a (analog and/or digital) hardware controller, actuators, sensory devices, and signal drivers corresponding to the external disturbance and parameter perturbations to recreate the physical environmental conditions for the plant emulator.

The fourth unit of the CDTRP, the GUI, provides the management of the entire platform. The GUI is implemented with more than 2000 lines of MATLAB code in the MATLAB GUI designer tool. The GUI serves as a monitoring and controlling unit for the platform. The GUI manages all operating modes listed in [Tables 19.1](#_bookmark101)

​                                                                                           

​            User            

​            Graphical user interface (GUI) unit on PC            

​            Controller/ plant simulator on PC            

​            Hardware peripheral            

​            Digital interfaces            

​            Plant emulator            

​            Analog and digital interfaces            

​            unit card                   

​             Controller            

​             Actuators            

​            Sensors            

​            Plant emulator card            

​             Disturbance and perturbation signal drivers            







 

**FIGURE 19.1** Structure of controller design–test–redesign platform.



Real-Time Simulation Platform                                 **467**

​     

**FIGURE 19.2** Front panel of the graphical user interface for the platform.

 

through 19.3 and the environmental conditions provided by the hardware peripheral card. A view of the front panel of the GUI is given in Figure 19.2 where the moni- toring and controlling tools supplied to the users by the GUI are visible. The main features and management (i.e., monitoring and controlling) facilities of the GUI are presented in more detail in other work [39].

[19.1 <--- ](19_1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 19.3](19_3.md)