[19.2 <--- ](19_2.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 19.4](19_4.md)

## 19.3. TAXONOMY OF REAL-TIME SIMULATION MODES REALIZED BY CDTRP

With the features of the GUI mentioned in Section 19.2, the developed simulation platform CDRTP becomes self-contained and it can implement 24 different real- time operating modes given in [Tables 19.1 ](#_bookmark101)through 19.3.

The operating modes given in Tables 19.1 through 19.3 are obtained depending on the implementation of controller, plant, and peripheral unit as the simulator (PC), emulator, or physical (analog/digital) hardware. Other than S-S-S, E-E-E, and R-R-R modes, all modes will be called as mixed modes since at least two of the controller, plant, and peripheral unit are implemented in different units of CDTRP (i.e., the simulator (PC), the emulator, and the physical hardware). Note that the controllers are applied to the plants within the unity feedback gain configuration in all modes. However, the modes are by no means restricted to this particular (yet quite general) feedback configuration, which means the other possible configurations can be created by making some modifications to the introduced GUI. The simulator and emulator of CDRTP can be run faster than real time or run without hard time limits. However, these cases (mentioned in Isermann [19]) are beyond consideration in the presented work, since the focus is on test and design of controllers under the criterion of working well for real-time operations.

The first column modes in [Table 19.3 ](#_bookmark102)cannot be realized in CDTRP without using an analog interface feeding the output of the physical peripheral unit to the PC where



**468**                                       Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

the plant is simulated.* The actuator, sensors, disturbance, and parameter perturbation effects that are created in the peripheral unit using analog/digital hardware can be embedded in the emulator by means of the emulator interface. So, the S-E-R, E-E-R, and R-E-R modes of CDTRP constitute a contribution to the real-time simulation literature, since there is no such interface possibility of the simulators running on PCs and the available emulators in the literature.

R-R-R operating mode corresponds to an actual control system and not a simulation mode. S-S-S mode where all parts of the control system are simulated on a PC is the most commonly used mode in the literature so that many software tools are available. All the real-time S-S-S, S-E-S, E-S-S, E-E-S, S-S-E, S-E-E, E-S-E, and E-E-E

operating modes where the controller, plant, and peripheral unit are all implemented in the simulator (PC), or possibly in the emulator, would be considered the so-called “software-in-the-loop” simulation in the literature [19, 20]. In a similar way, the modes S-R-S, E-R-S, R-R-S, S-R-E, E-R-E, S-R-R, and E-R-R where the plant under test is physical would be considered the so-called “prototyping modes” [19] and the modes R-S-S, R-E-S, R-S-E, R-E-E, and R-R-E where the controller is implemented as physical hardware while the plant is simulated would be considered the so-called “hardware-in-the-loop” simulation [19–27]. It should be noted that giving a single name for different modes is confusing, and so it may be better to use the three-letter based index provided in [Tables 19.1 ](#_bookmark101)through 19.3 to distinguish different modes. An alternative may be the separation of the modes into subclasses such as simulated-controller, simulated- plant, simulated-peripheral, emulated-controller, emulated-plant, emulated-peripheral, physical-controller, physical-plant, or physical-peripheral classes of modes. Each of these modes then refers to a set of modes whose common property is specified by the class name, for example, the real-plant class consists of all modes where the plant is real but the controller and peripheral may be simulated, emulated, or physical. Throughout the chapter, three-letter indices will be used for the individual modes and the lastly mentioned classes will be used for the associated set of modes whenever appropriate.

In a further refinement, the set of operating modes can be extended by assigning extra letters for each element of peripheral subunit, that is, actuator, sensor, disturbance, and perturbation, depending on their implementation in simulator or emulator or as physical hardware. A hardware realization for controllers and components of the peripheral unit is application specific. In other words, depending on the application, the hardware may be a fully analog system (as in the chaotic synchronization application presented in Section 19.7.3) or a microcontroller or digital signal processor card equipped with analog interface to communicate with the emulated or physical plant.

[19.2 <--- ](19_2.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 19.4](19_4.md)