[19.3 <--- ](19_3.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 19.5](19_5.md)

## 19.4. CATEGORIZATION OF CDTRP MODES BASED ON THEIR SUITABILITY FOR DESIGN, TEST, AND REDESIGN STAGES

According to the main issue addressed, which is to design controllers that achieve high performance at the physical plant under actual environmental conditions, a con- troller design procedure following a three stage path is proposed.

​     

\* Of course, such an extension is possible but at the expense of additional cost.



Real-Time Simulation Platform                                  **469**

 

*(Initial) Design Stage*: Use a simulation mode of CDTRP that enables imple- menting any kind of controller, plant, and peripheral components with a relatively much higher memory and speed provided by CPU as compared to the PIC proces- sor and with a high flexibility of changing the models and parameters of controller, plant, and peripheral components in an efficient way. Of course, the most suitable mode for the initial design stage is S-S-S. Depending on the control application, on the chosen (initial) set of candidate control methods, and also on the experi- ence and knowledge of the control system designer, the modes listed in the first rows and columns of [Tables 19.1 ](#_bookmark101)through 19.3 are typically preferred in the initial design stage.

*Test Stage*: Use an operating mode of CDTRP that examines the control methods in terms of their performances under conditions as close as possible to the physical world and so provides a tool for eliminating the controller candidates that give poor performances on the physical plant in the actual environment. In other words, the modes suitable for the test stage are the ones that provide physical performance fea- tures, providing sufficient information to make a correct decision on their usability in deployed applications. All these modes provide a flexible implementation efficiency with the ability to create and change the models and their parameters for controller, plant, and peripheral components, though, of course, to a lesser extent as compared to the initial design stage. In this sense, the modes listed in the last rows and columns of Tables 19.1 through 19.3 would be preferred in the test stage. However, even the S-S-S mode can be used for test purposes to eliminate some controller candidates in the early phases of the design process.

Before starting the design process, one of the first issues that should be clar- ified is the final operating mode for the control system under consideration. To understand beforehand how the physical control system will behave under actual conditions, the final test mode should be chosen close to the actual operating condi- tions. Depending on the control application, hardware realization possibilities, plant dynamics, and research/educational needs, the final test mode may be chosen as the R-R-R mode or any other mode reflecting the physics sufficiently yet implementable in laboratory conditions. For instance, R-R-R appears to be the most appropriate choice for final test of analog chaotic control systems [40], since their simulation and emulation do not reflect physics because of their large bandwidth dynamics.* As another example, the S-R-R mode of CDTRP is chosen for the final test in the control application where the PC is used for hardware implementation of the con- troller (see [5,9,10,22,24,27] and the controller design process for the micro DC motor in Section 19.7.2).

*Redesign Stage*: Redesign may be defined as going back to the design stage for updating models and/or parameters of controller, plant, and/or peripheral units and then testing new controller candidates in the same or in new environments. In one extreme case, redesign requires enlarging the set of control methods to be applied. In the other extreme case, it requires tuning the controller parameters

 

 

​     

\* See also the coupled Lorenz systems example in Section 19.7.3 studied for another purpose.



**470**                                       Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

only. In the former, redesign may end after many loops of design–test–redesign. In this setting, the operating modes that can be used in the redesign stage would be the ones suitable to the initial design and test stages. However, it can be stated that the operating modes listed in the last rows and columns of [Tables 19.1 ](#_bookmark101)through

19.3 would more likely be preferred in the redesign stage since a small set of models and parameters remain to be tested. So, less implementation flexibility is necessary and less distance to the physical plant after early phases of the design process.

The above design procedure defines a soft category specifying which operat- ing modes are suitable to the initial design, test, and redesign stages. In fact, the suitability of an operating mode to a considered stage of a controller design pro- cess is highly dependent on the control application, that is, on the plant, actuator, sensors, and environmental conditions. So, it appears to be impossible to provide a crisp category of modes based on their suitability to the design, test, and rede- sign stages. For a specific control application, it may be possible to determine the best suitable operating mode to the design, test, and redesign stages by successive implementation of some operating modes. Herein, the iteration process conducts assessment and evaluation of the obtained controller’s performance for each imple- mented mode to observe which mode yields the controller having the best deployed performance.

[19.3 <--- ](19_3.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 19.5](19_5.md)