[19.7 <--- ](19_7.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 20](20.md)

## 19.8 CONCLUSIONS

A real-time simulation platform called CDTRP has been developed, verified, and vali- dated. The developed platform consists of a simulator together with a software manager in PC (i.e., GUI), microcontroller-based emulator, and hardware peripheral unit. This platform is devoted to controller design, test, and redesign with an emphasis on recreat- ing actual operating conditions for examining and analyzing the actual performance of designed controllers while still having the opportunity to modify and tune the controller candidates based on their performances in a flexible way and without causing any dam- age to the physical plant or creating dangerous situations. CDTRP enables the embed- ding, via its hardware peripheral unit, of actual disturbances and any part or accessories of a physical plant. For example, actuators and sensors can be implemented in labora- tory conditions while the other parts of a plant are implemented in the simulator or emulator of the platform. This configurability enables users to approximate the physical plants and their actual environments as closely as desired. So, the developed CDTRP can be used for the design–test–redesign of controllers, comparison of the performances of the different controller algorithms, and controller parameter training procedures.

The real-time simulation modes (e.g., “hardware-in-the-loop simulation,” “con- trol prototyping,” and “software-in-the-loop simulation”) are realized with the devel- oped CDTRP because it can be operated in 24 different real-time operating modes where the controller, plant, and peripheral unit are implemented either in the simu- lator, in the emulator, or realized by external analog or digital hardware depending on the application and requirements on, for example, memory and time complexity. A subset of the operating modes that are introduced in this chapter contribute to the real-time simulation literature while the remaining ones correspond to the well- known simulation modes in the literature. The operating modes are described in a novel taxonomy and categorized based on their suitability to the design, test, and redesign stages of the proposed controller design process.

As observed by the investigation conducted in this work, the capabilities of the CDTRP platform in implementing the controllers and plants are limited by the hardware and software realizations used for its simulator and emulator units. This includes the MATLAB environment used for the PC simulator, a PIC microcontroller to implement the emulator, and the communication between these two and the exter- nal hardware units. The frequency range for a reliable implementation of the operat- ing modes of the CDTRP was determined by measuring the phase synchronization between the coupled oscillators, which are realized in different units of CDTRP.

The proposed design, test, and redesign procedure can be used in any simulation platform that provides a hierarchy of operating modes ranging from the flexible ones to the ones close to physics, and the developed platform is open to be improved in some focused control applications.

[19.7 <--- ](19_7.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 20](20.md)