[1 <--- ](1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 1.2](1_2.md)

## 1.1. INTRODUCTION: DISCRETE AND CONTINUOUS MODELS

The use of computers to simulate the behavior of physical or natural systems is as old as the history of computers itself. Adaptation of physical simulators, such as the original mechanical pilot training simulators, to *real-time* computer-based simula- tors was another early development in computer applications. Although the main focus here is on real-time simulation with hybrid models (explained below), the topic of simulation using hybrid models in general will be addressed first, with a more specific treatment of real-time applications introduced later.

The development of a simulation of an actual system involves the creation of a conceptual model of the *simuland* (the actual system to be simulated), which may be based on a set of rules, or a set of mathematical equations, or some other method of defining the state of the simuland and the way in which it changes with time. We use the term *actual system* rather than *real system* because sometimes the simuland does not exist and the use of the term *real* can be confusing. In the early days of simulation, a distinction quickly arose between two types of model for both real-time and non-real-time simulations. These were referred to as *discrete models* and *con- tinuous models* and the associated processes as *discrete simulation* and *continuous simulation*. This led to the use of the terms *discrete system* and *continuous system* to characterize the actual systems that were being simulated even though it is often not the system that is discrete or continuous but the model that is used to represent it. The practice of referring to the systems themselves as discrete or continuous persists even though many actual systems can be represented by either discrete or continuous models. Traffic flow provides an example. Discrete models are often used in traffic studies in which each vehicle is represented and events such as arrival at an intersec- tion or at a line of stationary traffic or a change of a stop light cause the system state to change. Study of traffic flow on a freeway, where the volume may be much greater is, however, often represented by a continuous model that treats the traffic as if it were a fluid flowing along the freeway using traffic flow rates as model variables.

Discrete and continuous simulations represent two different approaches to the modeling of dynamic systems. Both types of model require the system to be characterized by a system state that changes as time advances. It is the nature of this change that distinguishes the two approaches. A hybrid model is one that includes elements of both discrete and continuous models. Before dealing with hybrid models, we address the relevant features of discrete and continuous models.

### 1.1.1. Discrete Models

In a discrete model, it is assumed that the system state changes at certain discrete instants of time and remains unchanged between these times. These changes in the state of the system occur instantaneously as the result of an event that triggers them.

In a discrete model, time advances from event to event with appropriate updating of the system state at each event time. A prioritized future event queue is usually maintained as a central data structure into which new future events are entered as they are identified, and from which the next event is taken as the simulation clock advances to the next event time.

### 1.1.2. Continuous Models

In a continuous model, the state of the system is assumed to change in a continuous fashion as defined by the model differential equations, which relate the instantaneous rates of change of system variables to the current state of the system. In practice, the advance of time in the simulation is quasi-continuous because of the discrete time steps adopted by the numerical integration algorithms that are used to generate approximate solutions to the differential equations. In effect, even continuous simulations execute discretely. Switching phenomena are accommodated by allowing local discontinuities to occur in the state variables and their derivatives, in which case the model can be described as piecewise continuous and belongs to a class of hybrid systems discussed below. The details of time management in continuous simulations are also discussed in more detail below.

[1 <--- ](1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 1.2](1_2.md)