[1.5 <--- ](1_5.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 2](2.md)

## 1.6. CONCLUDING REMARKS

In this chapter, we have considered relevant aspects of discrete and continuous as well as hybrid simulations in both real-time and non-real-time contexts. The main focus, however, is on real-time simulation with hybrid models. We have seen that the distinction between discrete and continuous simulation is, in a sense, a distinction without a difference since a continuous simulation is itself essentially a discrete process. The key to hybrid simulations lies in the approach to time management and the synchronization of events between different parts of the simulation.

First we consider the non-real-time requirements. In general, discrete simulations usually advance in unequal time steps from event to event, and continuous simulations are also more likely to advance in unequal time steps using variable-step algorithms. Both discrete and continuous simulations can use fixed time steps. They are commonly used for simulating discrete time systems such as digital controllers and are a feature of the older activity-based discrete simulation approach. Where possible, however, the use of variable time steps can deliver significant improvements in performance.

For real-time simulation, the important factor is the available computer speed. If the computer is capable of executing code significantly faster than the related real events, then it can be allowed to idle while real events catch up. In fact, although it is often stated that variable-step integration algorithms are unsuitable for realtime continuous simulations, their use, particularly in conjunction with a fixed frame time, is not unfeasible as long as the longest possible execution time for the calculations within a frame can be guaranteed to be less than the time available.

For real-time hybrid simulations, time management must be capable of advancing the continuous simulations in fixed time steps (or frames) toward the time of the next discrete event. Synchronizing the fixed increment of time applied to the continuous simulation with the variable increments between events in the discrete simulation is a key factor in the time-management protocol. In the UUV simulation described above, the continuous simulation time steps are sufficiently short so that the timing errors that result from imposing a fixed time step are assumed to be acceptable. The methods described by Howe [39,40] and De Kelper et al. [41] help to compensate for these errors. An alternative, more widely used for non-real-time simulations, would be to use the methods that locate the time at which imminent state events occur and adjust the step size to coincide with the event. In real time, however, this introduces a double step in which time first advances to the time of the state event and then continues to the end of a normal step. This can only be done if the available processor power can accommodate the double step plus the overhead associated with locating the state event. The situation can be further complicated by multirate techniques, which require the event handler to keep track of the different sequences of fixed increment events for the different rates as well as the discrete events for each multirate segment.

Developing real-time hybrid simulations is in many cases a challenging undertaking with today’s available simulation software products. The picture is most promising for applications that are dominantly discrete with limited continuous elements or dominantly continuous with discrete elements restricted to switching events. Adding a need for more complete and balanced discrete/continuous features similar to the example described above, or for high-speed, or for multirate simulation significantly increases the degree of difficulty and is very likely to involve detailed programming of algorithms and time management. With the increasing interest in all kinds of hybrid simulations, there are growing and exciting opportunities for simulation software developers to meet this need.



[1.5 <--- ](1_5.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 2](2.md)