[1 <--- ](1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 3](3.md)

# Розділ 2. Формалізований підхід до проектування розподілених комп’ютерних систем реального часу

*Ming Zhang, Bernard Zeigler, and Xiaolin Hu*

**CONTENTS**

- [2.1](2_1.md) Introduction 
- [2.2](2_2.md)   Formal Approaches to the Design of Real-Time Distributed Computer Systems
- [2.3](2_3.md)     DEVS as a Model-Based Design Formalization Tool
  - 2.3.1    Model-Based System Design
  - 2.3.2    DEVS and RT-DEVS
  - 2.3.3    DEVS as a Formalized Aid to System Design
- [2.4](2_4.md)     DEVS-Based Formal Design Approaches for Real-Time Distributed Computing Systems
  - 2.4.1    Design Aid for Real-Time Distributed VE. 
  - 2.4.2    Design Aid and Verification for Real-Time Distributed Systems 
  - 2.4.3    DEVS Approach to the Design of Distributed Real-Time Cooperative Robotic Systems 
- [2.5](2_5.md)   Summary 

## References

1.  Schulz, S., J. W. Rozenblit, M. Mrva, and K. Buchenrieder. 1998. “Model-Based Codesign.” *IEEE Computer* 31 (8): 60–7.

2.  Hu, X., and B. P. Zeigler. 2005. “Model Continuity in the Design of Dynamic Distributed Real-Time Systems.” *IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics—Part A: Systems and Humans* 35 (6): 867–78.

3.  Pellens, B., F. Kleinermann, O. D. Troyer, and W. Bille. 2006. “Model-Based Design of Virtual Environment Behavior.” In *Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Virtual Systems and Multimedia 2006*, October 18–20, Xi’an, China, LNCS 4270, pp. 29–39.

4.  Paredis, C. J. J., A. Diaz-Calderon, R. Sinha, and P. K. Khosla. 2001. “Composable Models for Simulation-Based Design.” *Engineering with Computers* 17: 112–28.

5.  Zeigler, B. P., T. G. Kim, and H. Praehofer. 2000. *Theory of Modeling and Simulation*. 2nd ed. New York: Academic Press.

6.  Shaw, S. C. 2001. *Real-Time Systems and Software*. New York: John Wiley & Sons.

7.  Wainer, G. A., and P. J. Mosterman. 2010. *Discrete-Event Modeling and Simulation: Theory and Applications*. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

8.  Yau, Stephen S., Xiaoping, Jia, and Doo-Hwan, Bae. 1990. “Trends in Software Design for Distributed Computing Systems.” In *Proceedings of Second IEEE* *Workshop on Future Trends of Distributed Computing Systems*, Cairo, Egypt, September 30–October 2, 1990, pp. 154–60.

9.  Sommerville, I. 1989. *Software Engineering*. 3rd ed. Wokingham, U.K.: Addison- Wesley Publishing Co.

10.  Marco, D. 1918. *Structured Analysis and System Specification*. New York: Yourdon Press.

11.  Harel, D., H. Lachover, A. Naamad, A. Pnueli, M. Politi, R. Sherman, A. Shtull- Trauring, and M. Trakhtenbrot. 1990. “STATEMATE: A Working Environment for the Development of Complex Reactive Systems.” *IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering* 16 (4): 406–14.

12.  Yau, S. S., and M. U. Caglayan. 1983. “Distributed Software System Design Representation Using Modified Petri Nets.” *IEEE* *Transactions on Software Engineering* SE-9 (6): 733–45.

13.  Ramamoorthy, C. V., Y. Yaw, and W. T. Tsai. 1988. “Synthesis Rules for Cyclic Interaction among Processes in Concurrent Systems.” In *Proceedings of the 12th Annual International* *Computer Software & Applications Conference*, Chicago, 1988, pp. 497–504.

14.  Yau, S. S., and C.-R Chou. September 1988. “Control Flow Analysis of Distributed Computing System Software Using Structured Petri Net Model.” In *Proceedings: Workshop on the Future Trends of Distributed Computing Systems in the 1990s*, Hongkong, September 14–16, 1988, pp. 174–83.

15.  Alford, M. 1985. “SREM at the Age of Eight: The Distributed Computing Design System.” *IEEE Computer* 18 (4): 36–45.

16.  Evangelist, M., V. Y. Shen, I. R. Forman, and M. Graf. 1988. “Using Raddle to Design Distributed Systems.” In *Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Software Engineering*, Singapore, April 11–15, 1988, pp. 102–11.

17.  Yi Deng, Shengkai Lu, and Michael Evangelist. 1997. “A Formal Approach for Architectural Modeling and Prototyping of Distributed Real-Time Systems.” In *Proceedings of the Thirtieth Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences*, Maui, Hawaii, January 7–10, 1997, pp. 481–90.

18.  Jan, K., and H. Zdenek. “Verifying Real-Time Properties of Can Bus by Timed Automata.” [http://dce.felk.cvut.cz/hanzalek/publications/Hanzalek04a.pdf](http://dce.felk.cvut.cz/)., published 2004 online, accessed on July 2010.

19.  Subramonian, V., C. Gill, C. Sanchez, and H. Sipma. “Composable Timed Automata Models for Real-Time Embedded Systems Middleware.” [http://www.docin.com/p-87686529.html](http://www.docin.com/), published on 2005, accessed on July 2010.

20.  Bordbar, B., R. Anane, and K. Okano. 2006 “A Timed Automata Approach to QoS Resolution.” *International Journal of Simulation* 7 (1): 46–54.

21.  Selic, B. 1999. “Turning Clockwise: Using UML in the Real-Time Domain.” *ACM Communications* 42 (10): 46–54.

22.  Gomaa, H., and D. A. Menascé. 2000. “Design and Performance Modeling of Component Interconnection Patterns for Distributed Software Architectures.” In *Proceedings of the ACM WOSP 2000*, Ottawa, ON, Canada, pp. 117–26.

23. Giese, H., M. Tichy, S. Burmester. W. Schafer, and S. Flake. “Towards the Compositional Verification of Real-Time UML Designs.” In *Proceedings of the 9th European Software Engineering Conference*, Helsinki, Finland, September 1–5, 2003, pp. 38–47

24.  Bordbar, B., J. Derrick, and G. Waters. 2002. “Using UML to Specify QoS Constraints in ODP.” *Computer Networks* 40: 279–304.

25.  Zhang, M. Spring 2007. *Toward a Flexible and Reconfigurable Distributed Simulation: A New Approach to Distributed DEVS*. PhD dissertation, Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, University of Arizona.

26.  Hong, J. S., and T. G. Kim. 1997. “Real-time Discrete Event System Specification Formalism for Seamless Real-Time Software Development.” *Discrete Event Dynamic Systems: Theory and Applications* 7: 355–75.

27.  UML 2.0 Superstructure Specification. 2003 August. Available from OMG Adopted Specification.

28.  Alur, R., and D. L. Dill. 1994. “A Theory of Timed Automata.” *Theoretical Computer Science* 126: 183–235.

29.  van Bilion, W. R. 1988. “Extending Petri-Nets for Specifying Man-Machine Dialogue.” *International Journal of Man-Machine Studies* 28: 437–55.

30.  Harel, D. 1987. “Statecharts: A Visual Formalism for Complex Systems.” *Science of Computer Programming* 8: 231–74.

31.  Mosterman, P. J., J. O. Campbell, A. J. Brodersen, and J. R. Bourne. 1996. “Design and Implementation of an Electronics Laboratory Simulator.” *IEEE Transactions on Education* 39 (3): 309–13.

32.  Hamidi, A., A. Boukerche, L. Ahmad, and M. Zhang. 2008. “Supporting Web-Based E-Learning Through Collaborative Virtual Environments for Radiotherapy Treatment: A Formal Design.” In *Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Virtual Environments, Human-Computer Interfaces, and Measurement Systems*, Istanbul, Turkey, July 14–16, pp. 51–6.

33.  Boukerche, A., A. Hamidi, and M. Zhang. August 2009. “Design of a Virtual Environment Aided by a Model Based Formal Approach Using DEVS.” *Concurrency & Computation: Practice & Experience* 21 (11): 1422–36.

34.  Hoare, C. A. R. 1978. “Communicating Sequential Processes.” *Communications of the ACM* 28 (8): 666–77.

35.  Smith, S., and D. Duke. 1999. “Virtual Environments as Hybrid Systems.” In *Proceedings* *of the Eurographics UK 17th Annual Conference*, pp. 113–28.

36.  Wieting, R. 1996. “Hybrid High-Level Nets.” In *Proceedings of the 1996 Winter Simulation Conference*, Coronado, CA, USA, December 8–11, 1996, pp. 848–55.

37.  AutoDesk        3ds       Max,        [http://usa.autodesk.com/adsk/servlet/](http://usa.autodesk.com/) [index?siteID=123112&id=5659302](http://usa.autodesk.com/).

38.  AC3D, http://www.inivis.com/.

39.  Jacob, R. J. K. 1996. “A Visual Language for Non-WIMP User Interfaces.” In *Proceedings* *IEEE Symposium on Visual Languages*, Boulder, Colorado, USA, September 3–6, 1996, pp. 231–38.

40.  Dahmann, J. S., R. M. Fujimoto, and R. M. Weatherly. “The Department of Defense High Level Architecture.” In *Proceedings of the 1997 Winter Simulation Conference*, Atlanta, GA, USA, December 7–10, 1997.

41.  Boukerche, A., M. Zhang, and A. Shadid. 2008. “DEVS Approach to Real Time RTI Design for Large-Scale Distributed Simulation Systems.” *Simulation* 84: 231.

42.  IEEE Standard 1516-2000. 2000 September. “IEEE Standard for Modeling and Simulation (M&S) High Level Architecture (HLA)—Framework and Rules.”

43.  Xie, H., A. Boukerche, M. Zhang, and B. P. Zeigler. 2008. “Design of a QoS- Aware Service Composition and Management System in Peer-to-Peer Network Aided by DEVS.” In *Proceedings of IEEE International Symposium on Distributed Simulation and Real Time Application*, Vancouver, BC, Canada, October 27–29, 2008. 

44.  Xie, H., A. Boukerche, and M. Zhang. 2010. “A Formalized Approach Formalization Designing a P2P-Based Dynamic Load Balancing Scheme.” *Concurrency & Computation: Practice & Experience* 22: 1223–39.

45.  Melanie, M., 1996. *An Introduction to Genetic Algorithms*. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

46.  Hu, X., and B. P. Zeigler. 2005. “A Simulation-Based Virtual Environment to Study Cooperative Robotic Systems.” *Integrated Computer-Aided Engineering* 12 (4): 353–67.

47.  Hu, X. Fall 2003. “A Simulation-Based Software Development Methodology for Distributed Real-Time Systems.” PhD dissertation, Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, University of Arizona.

48.  Hu, X., B. P. Zeigler, and S. Mittal. 2005. “Variable Structure in DEVS Component- Based Modeling and Simulation.” *Simulation* 81 (2): 91–102.