[21 <--- ](21.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 21.2](21_2.md)

**21.1**     **INTRODUCTION**

The Automotive Open System Architecture (AUTOSAR) development partnership, which includes several carmakers or original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), car electronics (Tier 1) suppliers, and tool and software vendors, has been created to develop an open industry standard for automotive software architectures. The

**523**



**524**                                       Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

AUTOSAR standardization effort spans across all software levels, from device drivers to the operating system, the communication abstraction layers, the network stacks, and also the specification of application-level components.

The current version of the standard includes several specifications, which can be roughly classified into

 

•   A standard specification for the definition of application software components (SWCs), their interfaces, and an environment for their cooperation at the functional level.

•   A standard for the definition of the cooperation of *component behaviors*, including the definition of the events that are relevant for executing the *runnables* of components, which are defined as procedures executed in reaction to events.

•   A reference software *platform architecture*, encapsulating the basic software (BSW) (operating system and device drivers included) and providing a middleware layer for the execution of components and their interactions (including communication and exchange of signals and events).

•   A standard format for the (coarse grain) description of distributed *hardware architectures*, the description of the mapping of runnables to tasks, and the mapping of those onto the execution architecture.

•   A *metamodel* formalizing all the above.

 

In addition, AUTOSAR defines a development model (or, more appropriately, major steps and cornerstones in the development process) with automated support by tools and a common interchange format, based on XML, for model information at all stages in the process.

The AUTOSAR project has focused on the concepts of location independence, interface standardization, and code portability. The initial purpose was to enable the transition from Federated Architectures to Integrated Architectures. In a Federated Architecture, suppliers provide a node or electronic control unit (ECU) to be integrated in a network for each major functionality, which caused a proliferation of nodes and complex dependencies on network messages. In an Integrated Architecture, OEMs provide the specification of SWCs to suppliers, who are responsible for their development according to a standardized interface. OEMs can then integrate SWCs on an architecture platform of their choice. This type of portability and modularity requires the definition of a standard for SWCs, which includes the definition of their interfaces and a standard application program interface (API) for interacting with the software abstracting the physical platform. Hence, the AUTOSAR model has been strongly oriented to the representation of typical interactions among software packages and its semantics is strongly oriented to the modeling of cooperating procedures, rather than the representation of a formal model of computation (MoC) with a mathematical underpinning.

Later, with the evolution of the standard, the goal has become more ambitious and AUTOSAR is becoming a candidate for full-fledged system-level modeling, including capabilities for simulation and (worst-case) timing analysis or possibly even other types of analysis (such as reliability) that are required on system-level models.



Specification and Simulation of Automotive Functionality               **525**

 

The need for better control over the emergent behavior, the opportunity for analysis (by simulation or other formal method), and the need for controlling integration of heterogeneous models (for example Simulink® subsystems [1]) led the consortium to the specification of the AUTOSAR metamodel, which however, is still far from being based on a formal MoC.

To give an example, the notion of time and timed events was only introduced in the latest (4.0) release of the standard [2], with the goal of enabling worst-case timing analysis of response times at the level of specifications. Unfortunately, it appears that the timed event model is at best cumbersone if the purpose is, for example, to build a common discrete-time base for a system-wide AUTOSAR model integrating synchronous reactive (SR) models as subsystems. In addition, currently there is no tool support for the use of timed events.

With respect to the goal of simulation, AUTOSAR is clearly oriented toward the following: the simulation of functionality considering the structure of the SWCs and their actual code implementation; the implications of the mapping of the runnables to the elements of the execution architecture; and of scheduling issues and other platform-related delays, such as communication latency and operating system or device-driver delays. As such, AUTOSAR models and tools can be used for both hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) or software-in-the loop simulations (see also the classification in the chapter at Ref. [3]) and can be performed in real time or in logical time. AUTOSAR is not suited to the representation of continuous-time systems.

Therefore, its use in a model-in-the-loop framework will require integration with other tools (such as Simulink). These tools either provide the plant model and cooperate in a cosimulation environment or produce the code implementations for the models of the missing (continuous-time) systems. AUTOSAR models are a better fit to simulate the controller part. However, the lack of support for a detailed behavioral model makes their use unlikely in the early stages. AUTOSAR runnables are intended to be simple entry points for a code procedure. Even when the runnable behavior is available as a dataflow or as a state machine (or other type of model), either a cosimulation environment linking other tools (such as Simulink) to an AUTOSAR simulation engine or (more likely) the actual code implementation is required.

In conclusion, with respect to the framework outlined in the previous chapter, an AUTOSAR model can be simulated either right before or right after the availability of a real-time executable. The underlying model is a discrete event model based on the available framework of the run-time environment (RTE) events (described in the following sections). An AUTOSAR model can be constructed for the simulation of discrete-time systems by leveraging timed events (although creating a global-time framework is not necessarily an easy task, given that periodic timed events are local to each component).

Also, with respect to the task of model verification, the lack of a clear semantics with respect to time makes any type of formal verification of correctness in model- to-model transformations difficult or even impossible altogether.

We provide first a short introduction to AUTOSAR and its main concepts. Next, we discuss issues related to the possibility of using an AUTOSAR description of the system for simulating its behavior at increasing levels of accuracy with respect to the model of the execution platform. Finally, issues related to the necessity of



**526**                                       Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

maintaining a consistent view of the models that are used for simulation, timing analysis, and code generation are discussed.

[21 <--- ](21.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 21.2](21_2.md)