[23.2 <--- ](23_2.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 24](24.md)

## 23.3 RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS

The procedure described in this chapter has been applied to over 30 physical models built using Simscape, SimHydraulics, and SimElectronics®, and all of them are able to run in real time. These models contain hydraulic, electrical, mechanical, pneumatic, and thermal elements and include applications such as hydromechanical servovalves, brushless DC motors, hydraulic pipelines with water hammer effects, and pneumatic actuation systems with stick-slip friction. Nearly all of the models are nonlinear. As an indication of the size of the models, after equation reduction, the smallest model had 4 states and the largest model had 117 states. The original number of states before equation reduction is typically much larger.

All simulations were performed on an Intel Core 2 Duo E6700 (2.66 GHz) that was running xPC Target from MathWorks. With each model, settings that permitted real-time simulation on the target and delivered accurate results with more than enough idle time to ensure robust simulation were found. The maximum percentage of a step spent in simulation execution was less than 18%, meaning that there was plenty of safety margin for processing I/O and other tasks. The average percentage spent in simulation execution was 3.9% and the minimum was 6e-4%.

This chapter covered the background of real-time simulation and described the steps in moving from desktop to real-time simulation. Balancing the trade-off of model fidelity and simulation speed is a core challenge of moving from desktop to real-time simulation. Simscape local solvers permit a lot of flexibility for adjusting the amount of computation done per time step by permitting different sample rates and setting the number of iterations per time step. The benefits of real-time simulation are significant, including reduced development costs and higher quality products. As a core element of Model-Based Design, it will continue to play an important role in product development processes.

[23.2 <--- ](23_2.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 24](24.md)