[23 <--- ](23.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) 

# 24. Systematic Derivation of Hybrid System Models for Hydraulic Systems

*Jeremy Hodgson, Rick Hyde, and Sanjiv Sharma* 

- [24.1](24_1.md)  Introduction 
  - 24.1.1  Hydraulic Simulation Models 
  - 24.1.2  Simulating Differential Algebraic Equations. 
  - 24.1.3  Parameter Abstraction of Small Masses 
  - 24.1.4  Structure of Chapter. 
- [24.2](24_2.md)  Network Equations for Incompressible Fluid Models. 
- [24.3](24_3.md)  Simulation with Linear Velocity Constraints 
  - 24.3.1  Reduced Order State Vector 
  - 24.3.2  Minimum Order Momentum Equations 
  - 24.3.3  Junction Pressures and Reaction Forces. 
- [24.4](24_4.md)  Simulation with a Singular Mass Matrix 
  - 24.4.1  Index of Differential Algebraic Equations 
  - 24.4.2  Minimum Order Dynamic Equations. 
  - 24.4.3  Matrix Polynomial Equations for Algebraic States 
  - 24.4.4  Solving Systems of Polynomial Equations. 
  - 24.4.5  Local Singularities in Algebraic Equations 
- [24.5](24_5.md)  Example: Pressure-Controlled Servo Valve. 
  - 24.5.1  Model Definition 
  - 24.5.2  Model Dynamics. 
  - 24.5.3  Mode Transition (Finite State Machine) 
  - 24.5.4  DAE Equations (“Positive” Mode). 
  - 24.5.5  Simulation Results 
- [24.6](24_6.md)  Conclusions. 
- [24.7](24_7.md)  Symbol List 

## **ACKNOWLEDGMENT**

The authors wish to thank Airbus Operations Ltd for their support during this research.

## **REFERENCES**

1.  Pfeiffer, F., and F. Borchsenius. 2004. “New Hydraulic System Modelling.” *Journal of Vibration and Control* 10(10): 1493–515.

2.  Gillespie, R. B., and J. E. Colgate. 1997. “A Survey of Multibody Dynamics for Virtual Environments.” In *Proceedings of the ASME International Mechanical Engineering Conference and Exposition*, Dallas, Texas, Vol. 61, pp. 45–54.

3.  Kane, T. R. 1961. “Dynamics of Nonholonomic Systems.” *Journal* *of* *Applied* *Mechanics* 28: 574–78.

4.  Gillespie, R. Brent. 2003. “Kane’s Equations for Haptic Display of Multibody Systems.” *The Electronic Journal of Haptics Research* 3: 1–20.

5.  Gillespie, R. Brent., V. Patoglu, I. I. Hussein, and E. R. Westervelt. 2005. “On-Line Symbolic Constraint Embedding for Simulation of Hybrid Dynamical Systems.” *Multibody System Dynamics* 14(3–4): 387–417.

6.  Mosterman, P. J. 1999. “An Overview of Hybrid Simulation Phenomena and Their Support by Simulation Packages.” In *Hybrid Systems: Computation and Control: Second International Workshop*. Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer.

7.  Merritt, H. E. 1967. *Hydraulic Control Systems*. 2nd ed. New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

8.  Wampler, C., K. Buffington, and J. Shu-hui. 1985. “Formulation of Equations of Motion for Systems Subject to Constraints.” *Journal of Applied Mechanics* 52: 465–70.

9.  Singh, R. P., and P. W. Likens. 1985. “Singular Value Decomposition for Constrained Dynamical Systems.” *Journal of Applied Mechanics* 52: 943–48.

10.  The MathWorks, Inc. 2006. *Symbolic Math Toolbox User’s Guide*. 3.1.5 ed. Natick, MA: The MathWorks, Inc.

11.  Rabier, P. J., and W. C. Rheinboldt. 2001. “Theoretical and Numerical Analysis of Differential-Algebraic Equations.” *Handbook of Numerical Analysis* 8: 183–542.

12.  Anderson, E., Z. Bai, C. Bischof, J. Demmel, J. Dongarra, J. Du Croz, A. Greenbaum, S. Hammarling, A. Mckenney, and D. Sorensen. 1990. “Lapack: A Portable Linear Algebra Library for High-Performance Computers.” Technical Report CS-90-105, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN.

13.  Quintana-Ort, G., X. Sun, and C. Bischof. 1998. A BLAS-3 Version of the QR Factorization with Column Pivoting. *SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing* 19(5): 1486–94.

14.  Foster, L. V., and X. Liu. In press. “Comparison of Rank Revealing Algorithms Applied to Matrices with Well Defined Numerical Ranks.” *SIAM Journal on Matrix Analysis and Applications*, unpublished manuscript. [http://www.math.sjsu.edu/~foster/rank/](http://www.math.sjsu.edu/) [rank_revealing_s.pdf](http://www.math.sjsu.edu/).

15.  Nashed, M. Z., and X. Chen. 1993. “Convergence of Newton-Like Methods for Singular Operator Equations Using Outer Inverses.” *Numerische Mathematik* 66: 235–57.

16.  The MathWorks, Inc. 2006. *Simulink* *Reference*. 6.5 ed. Natick, MA: The MathWorks Inc.

17.  Tunay, I., E. Y. Rodin, and A. A. Beck. 2001. “Modeling and Robust Control Design for Aircraft Brake Hydraulics.” *IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology* 9: 319–29.

18.  The MathWorks, Inc. 2006. *Stateflow and Stateflow Coder Reference*. 6.5 ed. Natick, MA: The MathWorks Inc.