[24.1 <--- ](24_1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 24.3](24_3.md)

**24.1**     **NETWORK EQUATIONS FOR INCOMPRESSIBLE** **FLUID MODELS**

The basis for a simulation model of connected hydraulic components containing incompressible fluid is a system of unconstrained momentum equations and a system of linear algebraic constraints. The unconstrained momentum equations are given in Equation 24.3, where **v** is the vector of fluid velocities augmented with states describing



Systematic Derivation of Hybrid System Models for Hydraulic Systems      **603**

 

the motion of mechanical components such as cylinder pistons and valve spools. **M** is a diagonal matrix of fluid and component masses, and **F(v)** is the known forcing function given in Equation 24.4. For the type of hydraulic system under consideration, the forcing function consists of terms representing the external pressure sources at the interfaces to the system (**P**I), velocity-dependent friction terms (**W**V **v**), and the pressure drop across open orifices (∆**P**O). The pressure drop across an orifice is assumed to obey the orifice equation in Equation 24.5. In this case, flow through an orifice is assumed

to be turbulent, and the fluid density (ρ) is independent of pressure and temperature. This does not discount extending the equations to include changes in flow regime as described in Ref. [7], by making ρ and *C*d functions of the current state values.

In addition to the known forcing functions, there are unknown internal constraint

forces as illustrated in Figure 24.1. The constraint forces consist of pressure forces acting at fluid junctions (**PJ**), reaction forces between components in contact with their end-stops (**FR**), and the pressure drop across closed orifices (∆**P**C).



**Mv** + **W**J**P**J + **W**R**F**R + **W**CD**P**C = **F**(**v**)





(24.3)



 

**F** (**v**) = **W**OD**P**O + **W**V**v** + **W**I**P**I                   (24.4)

 



 

D*P*O



= æ rö æ 1 ö *v* *v*

​          

​        çè 2 ÷ø çè *C* 2 ÷ø        



d





 

(24.5)



 

  The unknown constraint forces are related to a system of algebraic constraints. The velocity constraints include the requirement that the sum of the flows into a junction must be zero (**WJ**), that flow through closed orifices (**WC**) must be zero, and that the motion of components that have reached their end-stops (**WR**) must be zero. The combined system of constraints can then be represented by **W** in Equation 24.6.

é **W**T ù

ê   J ú



​     

​        R        



ê **W**T ú **v** = **W**T **v** = **0**



ê **W**T ú



(24.6)



ë   C û

*P*J

​                                                           Junction pressures

 

 



 

Reaction forces

 

 

Pressure drop across closed orifices





*F*R

 

 

​                      

​           *P*C          





   



​       

​       

​       

​          *Mv*.          



*v* = 0





 

**FIGURE 24.1** Internal constraint forces acting in hydraulic system models.

[24.1 <--- ](24_1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 24.3](24_3.md)