[2 <--- ](2.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 2_2](2_2.md)

## 2.1. INTRODUCTION

Real-time distributed computer systems combine virtual environment (VE)– based systems, real-time peer-to-peer (P2P)–based systems, quality-of-service (QoS)–aware distributed computer systems, and hybrid systems (the systems that incorporate both real-time and non-real-time behaviors). Efficient system design for such systems requires a sound framework that can facilitate effective design modeling and simulation (M&S) as well as support for flexible test- ing of design alternatives. Traditional approaches to system design do not use formal system specification languages or formalisms and are based on accumu- lated domain knowledge. Thus, system design, in many cases, is separated from system implementation, system testing, and system validation. With the rapid advances of distributed real-time computer systems, the complexity of such sys- tems is increasingly challenging traditional nonformalized design approaches. Therefore, formal design methods have been widely used for system design in recent years, and such efforts have been verified by many researchers as suit- able for large-scale and complex systems. Among different formal approaches, it is worth noting that model-based system design has proved to be one of the most efficient methods to address the key concerns in complex system design [1–4]. Indeed, the model-based design approach uses a formal language to describe system design models, and such design models are then simulated to predict the performance of the system in real-world scenarios. In particular, the model-based formal design using Discrete Event System Specification (DEVS) [5–7] differentiates it from most other approaches because of its use of a unique integrative framework that can address most of the issues faced in complex sys- tem design, and in particular, distributed real-time computer systems.

The DEVS formalism has become one of the most important components of M&S theory. It provides a conceptual framework and an associated computa- tional approach for solving methodological problems in M&S communities. This computational approach is based on the mathematical theory of systems including the hierarchy of system specifications and specification morphisms. It manipulates a framework of elements to determine their logical relationships. As a formal sys- tem specification language, DEVS formalism and its associated M&S environment offers a very useful toolset for helping with complex system design and verification. Therefore, DEVS can be applied for precisely modeling the system components and their interactions and is therefore ideal for the design and evaluation of real-time dynamic software or embedded systems. Moreover, the recent advance of distributed DEVS opens up new potential for more efficient system design for real-time distrib- uted systems including QoS-aware systems.

System design is a broad topic that has been addressed by many researchers [8,9]. Most recently, the advance of M&S techniques has greatly advanced system design by providing a more effective and reliable tool for designing large-scale and complex real-time distributed computer systems. In this chapter, we analyze and demonstrate how DEVS as a formalized approach can aid system design in a very flexible and efficient manner. We hold that DEVS, real-time DEVS (RT-DEVS), and distributed DEVS will continue to be among the most powerful tools for aiding complex system design, and in particular, real-time distributed computer systems including VE- and P2P-based systems.

The main contributions of this chapter are to

1. Demonstrate how DEVS can be used as a fundamental system design tool for distributed real-time computer systems.

2. Demonstrate how DEVS is used for design validation for complex real-time computer systems, such as distributed VEs, distributed real-time P2P systems, and distributed simulation systems.

3. Demonstrate how DEVS can be used as a fundamental technology for building a more advanced framework to support design of distributed real- time systems, such as cooperative robotic systems. 

The rest of this chapter is organized as follows: Section 2.2 introduces existing formal approaches for design of real-time distributed computer systems. Section 2.3 focuses on a DEVS-based formal design approach including a brief review of model- based system design, as well as DEVS foundational theories and how it works as a sound tool to aid system design. Section 2.4 discusses DEVS-based formal design approaches for real-time distributed computing systems with several case studies. Finally, Section 2.5 concludes this chapter.

[2 <--- ](2.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 2_2](2_2.md)