[2.1 <--](2_1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 2.3](2_3.md)

## 2.2. FORMAL APPROACHES TO THE DESIGN OF REAL-TIME DISTRIBUTED COMPUTER SYSTEMS

With the rapid advances of real-time distributed computer systems, the need for more efficient system design is called on to reduce the design cost and design life cycle. Moreover, the traditional design approaches cannot meet the requirement of today’s large-scale and complex real-time distributed computer systems because traditional nonformalized design approaches are error-prone, costly, and difficult to validate. Therefore, formalized system design approaches have been widely used in many areas for more efficient design of real-time distributed computer systems.

As a matter of fact, formalized system design has been proposed and clarified by some earlier researchers that can be traced back as far as the 1990s. For instance, Yau et al. [8] presented a research paper in 1990 that foresaw the best approaches for designing distributed computer systems. Their work classified the design approaches into three categories: dataflow oriented, communication oriented, and object oriented. A dataflow-oriented design approach basically uses structured analysis/ structured design [9,10] as the fundamental design method, which is based on the functional decomposition of the system. Therefore, the concurrency related issues are not directly handled in the design phase, which results in inefficient design for distributed real-time-based computer systems.

To overcome this problem, communication-oriented design methods are developed. However, because of the focus on concurrency naturally the functional aspect of the system is a secondary concern, which results in limitation of the communication-oriented approach to the design of communication intensive applications with simple data structures and computations within the system. Based on this classification, STATEMATE [11], various types of Petri nets [12–14], SREM [15], and Raddle [16] are representatives of communication-oriented design approaches for distributed computer systems. Among these approaches, Petri net–based methods are well known in terms of behavior modeling and considered by many authors to be the best in this category. The key idea of a Petri net is to use “places,” “transition,” and a number of tokens to represent a system model. As such, the dynamic behavior of the system’s concurrent processes can be specified in terms of communication and synchronization among processes.

It is worth mentioning that some Petri net–based approaches have been aware of the limitation of the pure communication-oriented classic Petri net method, and, therefore, some “object” based architectural features were added to the Petri net concept. For example, a Net-based and Object-based Architectural Model (NOAM) for architectural modeling and prototyping of real-time distributed computer systems has been proposed [17]. NOAM supports progressive system decomposition and refinement to construct a hierarchically structured system architectural model that is modular, scalable, and executable. However, to understand and build a NOAM-based system model is a nontrivial task.

In contrast, an object-orient design approach can overcome the shortcomings of both dataflow-oriented and communication-oriented approaches. Most of today’s real-time distributed computer systems are built upon object-oriented concepts and programming languages; therefore, the object-oriented system design approach naturally fits the modern concept of system designs. Basically, object-oriented design can take full advantage of an object-oriented methodology to use a formal design specification language and tools in one unified domain. This approach can address both structural decomposition and communication in a distributed computer system. Indeed, many of today’s formal design tools are based on an object-oriented philosophy. However, there are major concerns with respect to synchronization and parallelism support as well as effective modeling tools (that can take full advantage of object-oriented methodology).

Timed automata as a formalism also shows its capability for modeling distributed real-time systems [18]. It employs timed automata for modeling a communication protocol with a main focus on verification of desired/undesired states in timecritical distributed applications. Other work [19] studied a formal design approach for middleware for distributed real-time embedded (DRE) systems. Considering the growing complexity of the middleware-based architecture, this work relied on timed automata to meet the need for detailed modeling of low-level middleware mechanisms. Meanwhile, evaluation of such models through model checking tools can greatly reduce the error at an earlier design phase. This work proposed a modeldriven approach for the design of middleware-based DRE systems in which timed automata play the key role in formal system specification and model verification. Indeed, the use of timed automata has been a well-known key ingredient for designing real-time distributed computer systems. Application of timed automata for designing real-time distributed computer systems has been increasingly extended to new areas, including design of QoS-aware distributed real-time systems. As an example, recent work [20] used timed automata in a model-based approach for modeling and verification of both system behavior and QoS requirements in a distributed wireless network environment. In this research, timed automata were used for behavior modeling and model verification.

Unified Modeling Language (UML), as an object-oriented formal method, has also been widely adopted for designing computer systems including real-time distributed systems. The feasibility of using real-time UML as a formal design tool for distributed real-time computer systems has been discussed in Selic [21]. UML holds promise in the real-time domain, not only because it incorporates most of the basic modeling abstractions that the domain relies on but also because the flexibility of its stereotype mechanism allows these general abstractions to be specialized to the desired degree of accuracy. Other work by Gomaa and Menascé [22] investigated the component interaction patterns of a large-scale distributed system using UML as a formal specification language for performance modeling and system design.

Both the synchronous and asynchronous communication mechanisms were studied by UML-based modeling. Moreover, a domain-specific formal semantic definition for a subset of the UML 2.0 component model was introduced, and an integrated sequence of design steps was then discussed [23]. Using UML for QoS-aware real-time distributed systems has also been investigated by many researchers. For instance, Bordbar et al. [24] discuss the design of a distributed system by using UML as the formal language for the specification. This work uses UML to model the computational viewpoint of the system with a focus on the description of QoS within that viewpoint. The resulting UML model can then serve as a template via which specific distributed system designs can be constructed.

Also known as an object-oriented formal system specification language, DEVS is playing an increasingly important role in aiding the design of complex real-time computer systems including real-time embedded systems, distributed real-time P2P systems, distributed VEs, and many more. The key difference between DEVS and aforementioned other object-oriented formal design approaches (such as those based on Petri nets and timed automata) lies in

- The system design models can be directly simulated in one integrative environment that includes model specifications, simulators, and “experimental frames” (under which models are evaluated using appropriate simulators).
- Because of their composability, the design model components are reusable through a model repository due to the separation of models from their simulators.
- The model and simulator structure are natively hierarchical, which makes it easy to map them onto today’s complex computer systems.

To compare DEVS with aforementioned other well-known formal system design methods, we study how they are fundamentally different. For instance, in the approach using Petri nets, the real-time system design can be formalized and represented using a Petri net graph, through which the system behavior can be abstractly visualized and tested. The malfunctioning or undesired system behavior can thus be identified and analyzed. However, while complex hierarchical systems actually represent the majority of today’s real-time distributed computer systems, it is not straightforward to model such systems with Petri nets. How an individual system component affects the overall system design outcome is difficult to analyze. Moreover, how to obtain an optimal design from multiple design alternatives is also beyond the basic capability of a Petri net–based approach. In comparison, these issues are addressed fundamentally in a DEVS-based approach. Furthermore, another significant advantage of a DEVS-based approach is that the simulation models can be integrated with a real-time distributed computer system to form a virtual simulation environment. This environment then can combine both the system’s component models and real system components. This unique feature is not present in other formal methods, and it will be further demonstrated in Section 2.4.3. In the following sections, after the fundamental DEVS theories are introduced, we will demonstrate how DEVS can effectively aid system design in many different scenarios.

[2.1 <--](2_1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 2.3](2_3.md)