[2 <--- ](2.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 4](4.md)

# 3. Principles of DEVS Model Verification for Real-Time Embedded Applications

*Hesham* *Saadawi,* *Gabriel* *A.* *Wainer,* *and* *Mohammad* *Moallemi*

**CONTENTS**

- [3.1](3_1.md)    Introduction 
- [3.2](3_2.md)    Background 
  - 3.2.1    Difficulties of DEVS Formal Verification. 
  - 3.2.2    Rational Time-Advance DEVS. 
- [3.3](3_3.md)    DEVS Verification Methodology 
- [3.4](3_4.md)    Case Study: Controller for an E-Puck Robotic Application. 
  - 3.4.1    DEVS Model Specification. 
  - 3.4.2    Implementation on the ECD**++** Toolkit 
  - 3.4.3    Executing the Models 
  - 3.4.4    Verifying the Model. 
- [3.5](3_5.md)    Conclusions 

## References 

1.  Merz, S., and N. Navet. 2008. *Modeling and Verification of Real-Time Systems: Formalisms and Software Tools*. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

2.  Wainer, G., E. Glinsky, and P. MacSween. 2005. “A Model-Driven Technique for Development of Embedded Systems based on the DEVS Formalism.” In *Model-Driven Software Development. Volume II of Research and Practice in Software Engineering*, edited by S. Beydeda and V. Gruhn. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag.

3.  Zeigler, B. P., H. Praehofer, and T. G. Kim. 2000. *Theory of Modeling and Simulation*. 2nd ed. New York: Academic Press.

4.  Alur, R., and D. Dill. 1994. “Theory of Timed Automata.” *Theoretical* *Computer Science* 126: 183–235.

5.  Miller, J. 2000. “Decidability and Complexity Results for Timed Automata and Semi- linear Hybrid Automata.” In *Hybrid Systems: Computation and Control*, LNCS 1790, pp. 296–309, London, UK: Springer-Verlag.

6.  Saadawi, H., and G. Wainer. 2009. “Verification of Real-Time DEVS Models.” In *Proceedings of DEVS Symposium 2009*, pp. 143:1–143:8, San Diego, CA: Society for Computer Simulation International.

7.  Saadawi, H., and G. Wainer. 2010. “Rational Time-Advance DEVS (RTA-DEVS).” In *Proceedings of DEVS Symposium 2010*, Orlando, FL, pp. 143:1–143:8, San Diego, CA: Society for Computer Simulation International.

8.  Hwang, M-H., and B. P. Zeigler. July 2009. “Reachability Graph of Finite and Deterministic DEVS Networks.” *IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering* 6 (3): 468–78.

9.  Behrmann, G., A. David, and K. Larsen. 2004. “A Tutorial on Uppaal.” In *Proceedings of the 4th International School on Formal Methods for the Design of Computer, Communication, and Software Systems*, LNCS, 3185, pp. 200–237, Springer-Verlag.

10.  Wainer. G. 2009. *Discrete-Event Modeling and Simulation*: *A Practitioner’s Approach*. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, Taylor & Francis.

11.  Zeigler, B. P., H. Song, T. Kim, and H. Praehofer. 1995. “DEVS Framework for Modelling, Simulation, Analysis, and Design of Hybrid Systems.” In *Proceedings of HSAC*, Ithaca, NY, LNCS 999, pp. 529–551, London, UK: Springer-Verlag .

12.  Christen, G., A. Dobniewski, and G. Wainer. 2004. “Modeling State-Based DEVS Models in CD++.” In *Proceedings of MGA, Advanced Simulation Technologies Conference*, Arlington, VA. San Diego, CA: Society for Computer Simulation International.

13.  Castro, R., E. Kofman, and G. Wainer. 2010. “A Formal Framework for Stochastic DEVS Modeling and Simulation.” *Simulation, Transactions of the SCS 86* (10): 587–611.

14.  Hong, J. S., H. S. Song, T. G. Kim, and K. H. Park. 1997. “A Real-Time Discrete Event System Specification Formalism for Seamless Real-Time Software Development.” *Discrete Event Dynamic Systems* 7 (4): 355–75.

15.  Song, H. S., and T. G. Kim. February 2005. “Application of Real-Time DEVS to Analysis of Safety-Critical Embedded Control Systems: Railroad Crossing Control Example.” *Simulation* 81 (2): 119–36.

16.  Furfaro, A., and L. Nigro. 2008. “Embedded Control Systems Design Based on RT-DEVS and Temporal Analysis using UPPAAL.” In *Computer Science and Information Technology*, IMCSIT 2008, October 20–22, 2008, pp. 601–08, Polish Information Processing Society.

17.  Furfaro, A., and L. Nigro. June 2009. “A Development Methodology for Embedded Systems Based on RT-DEVS.” *Innovations in Systems and Software Engineering 5*: 117–27.

18.  Han, S., and K. Huang. 2007. “Equivalent Semantic Translation from Parallel DEVS Models to Time Automata”. In *Proceedings of 7th International Conference on Computational Science*, *ICCS,* pp. 1246–1253, Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag.

19.  Giambiasi, N., J.-L. Paillet, and F. Châne. 2003. “Simulation and Verification II: From Timed Automata to DEVS Models.” In *Proceedings of the 35th Winter Simulation Conference (WSC ‘03)*, New Orleans, LA, pp. 923–931, San Diego, CA: Society for Computer Simulation International.

20.  Hernandez, A., and N. Giambiasi. 2005, pp. 923–931, San Diego, CA: Society for Computer Simulation International. “State Reachability for DEVS Models.” In *Proceedings of Argentine Symposium on Software Engineering*, Buenos Aires, Argentina, pp. 251–265.

21.  Dacharry, H., and N. Giambiasi. 2007. “Formal Verification Approaches for DEVS.” In *Proceedings of the 2007 Summer Computer Simulation Conference (SCSC)*, San Diego, CA, pp. 312–319, San Diego, CA: Society for Computer Simulation International.

22.  Hong, K. J., and T. G. Kim. 2005. “Timed I/O Test Sequences for Discrete Event Model Verification.” In *AIS 2004*, Jeju, Korea, pp. 275–84, LNAI 3397.

23.  Labiche, Y., and G. Wainer. 2005. “Towards the Verification and Validation of DEVS Models.” In *Proceedings of the 1st Open International Conference on Modeling & Simulation*, Clermont-Ferrand, France, pp. 295–305.

24.  Bowman, H., and R. Gomez. 2006. *Concurrency Theory: Calculi and Automata for Modelling Untimed and Timed Concurrent Systems*. London: Springer-Verlag.

25.  Emerson, E. A., and E. M. Clarke. 1982. “Using Branching-Time Temporal Logic to Synthesize Synchronization Skeletons.” *Science of Computer Programming* 2 (3): 241–66.

26.  Alur, R., C. Courcoubetis, and D. L. Dill. 1990. “Model-Checking for Real-Time Systems.” In *5th Symposium on Logic in Computer Science (LICS’90)*, pp. 414–25, IEEE.

27.  Henzinger, T. A. 1994. “Symbolic Model Checking for Real-Time Systems.” *Information* *and Computation* 111: 193–244.

28.  Moallemi, M., and G. Wainer. 2010. “Designing an Interface for Real-Time and Embedded DEVS.” In *Proceedings of 2010 Symposium on Theory of Modeling and Simulation*, TMS/DEVS’10, Orlando, FL.*Transition,* pp. 137.1–137.8, San Diego, CA: Society for Computer Simulation International.