[3 <--- ](3.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 3.2](3_2.md)

## 3.1. INTRODUCTION

Embedded real-time (RT) software systems are increasingly used in mission critical applications, where a failure of the system to deliver its function can be catastrophic. Currently existing RT engineering methodologies use modeling as a method to study and evaluate different system designs before building the target application. Having a system model enables the verification of system properties and functionality before building the actual system. In this way, deployed systems would have a very high reliability, as the formal verification permits detecting systems errors at the early stages of the design. To apply such methodologies for embedded control systems, a designer must abstract the physical system to be controlled and build a model for it. This model can then be combined with a model of the proposed controller design for study and evaluation.

In general, different techniques are used to reason about these models and gain confidence in the correctness of a design. Informal methods usually rely on exten- sive testing of the systems based on system specification. These techniques can reveal errors but cannot prove nonexistence of errors. Instead, formal techniques can prove the correctness of a design. Unfortunately, formal approaches are usually constrained in their applications, as they do not scale up well and they require the user to have expert knowledge in applying formal techniques. Another drawback of applying formal techniques is that they must be applied to an abstract model of the target system to be practical. However, in doing so, what is being verified is not the final executable system. Even if the abstract model is correct, there is a risk that some errors creep into the implementation through the manual process of implementing specifications into executable code [1].

A different approach considers using modeling and simulation (M&S) to gain confidence in the model correctness. M&S of RT systems also enables testing much like testing a physical system, even for cases where physical testing may be too costly or impossible to achieve [2]. If the models used for M&S are formal, their correct- ness is verifiable and a designer can also observe the system evolution and its inner workings. Another advantage of executable models is that they can be deployed to the target platform, thus providing the opportunity to use the controller model not only for simulations but also as the actual code executing in the target hardware. The advantage of this methodology is that the verified model is itself the final implemen- tation executing in RT. This avoids any new errors that would appear during trans- formation of the verified models into an implementation, thus guaranteeing high degree of system correctness and reliability.

In the following sections, we introduce a new methodology proposed to verify simulation models based on the Discrete Event Systems Specification (DEVS) for- malism [3]. The reason for introducing a new methodology for DEVS verification is that most existing such methods are limited to a constrained set of DEVS subclasses. This prevents the verification of a wide range of existing DEVS models and forces the modeler to use less-expressive subclasses. In addition, these DEVS subclasses require special verification tools that may not add much value over standard verifica- tion tools for timed automata (TA) [4,5]. The value of these special verification tools is questionable, as most verification algorithms used for restricted DEVS subclasses rely on the same timed model-checking algorithm used for the verification of TA. In that sense, these algorithms have the same time and space complexity as those of TA model-checking algorithms, and thus, DEVS verification tools do not provide any advantages over TA verification. On the contrary, verification tools for TA are widespread, and they usually contain many performance optimizations.

For these reasons, we define a new class of rational time-advance DEVS called RTA-DEVS that is close to classic DEVS in semantics and expressive power (enabling the verification of most existing DEVS models [6]). Then, we define a transformation to obtain a TA that is behaviorally equivalent to RTA-DEVS [7]. The advantage of doing so is that many classic DEVS models would satisfy the semantics of RTA- DEVS models, and they could be simulated with any DEVS simulator, but they can be transformed to TA to validate the desired properties formally. RTA-DEVS has followed Finite and Deterministic DEVS, called FD-DEVS [8], in restricting the time advance function to nonnegative rational numbers but also relaxed the restric- tion of FD-DEVS on external transition functions. This makes RTA-DEVS closer to general DEVS and adds expressiveness. However, RTA-DEVS still restricts the elapsed time in a state used in the external transition function to be a nonnegative rational number. This restriction translates to having nonnegative rational constants in guards in the transformed TA model and ensures termination of the reachability analysis algorithms implemented in UPPAAL [9]. As per the theory of TA presented in Ref. [4], irrational constants in TA guards render reachability analysis undecid- able (as proved in Ref. [5]).



[3 <--- ](3.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 3.2](3_2.md)