[3.4 <--- ](3_4.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 4](4.md)

## 3.5. CONCLUSIONS

Mixing formal software verification and validation together with simulation techniques provides a strong methodology for simulation models verification and validation models. Because it is amenable to RT simulation, this methodology constitutes a significant contribution to the field of embedded software engineer- ing. Simulation models must be validated against actual system properties to make sure the modeler captured the essence of the system under study. Formal verification provides this assurance without the need to run exhaustive simula- tions and manually analyze simulation results. Simulation models also must be verified against any errors that may have been introduced during model building. Errors such as infinite transitions in a bounded time, which result in an illegiti- mate DEVS model, are difficult to debug manually and thus good candidates for formal verification.

Embedded systems design must model both the physical system under con- trol and the controller. These models hold more value if they are written in a formalism that can be simulated, such as is the case for DEVS. This allows the designer to simulate the system, change design, and simulate again to reach a correct and optimal design. Formal verification helps verify absence of defects in the system. Once the system is proven to be free of defects, the controller DEVS model, being verified within the complete system, is deployed as the executable controller by running on an embedded DEVS simulator. This eliminates any transformation between the verified model and its implementation, thus avoiding potential defects from creeping into the final implementation because of neces- sary transformations.

[3.4 <--- ](3_4.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 4](4.md)