[3 <--- ](3.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 5](5.md)

#  4. Optimizing Discrete Modeling and Simulation for Real-Time Constraints with Metaprogramming

*Luc Touraille, Jonathan Caux, and David Hill* 

**CONTENTS**

- [4.1](4_1.md)    Introduction. 
- [4.2](4_2.md)    Code Generation and Metaprogramming for Optimizing Real-Time Simulation 
  - 4.2.1    Concepts and Definitions. 
  - 4.2.2    Text Generation. 
    - 4.2.2.1    Data Generation 
    - 4.2.2.2    Instructions Generation 
  - 4.2.3    Domain-Specific Languages. 
    - 4.2.3.1    Embedded DSLs 
  - 4.2.4    Multistage Programming Languages. 
    - 4.2.4.1    C++ Template Metaprogramming 
  - 4.2.5    Partial Evaluation. 
  - 4.2.6    Comparison of the Different Approaches 
- [4.3](4_3.md)    Application to Simulation: DEVS-Metasimulator. 
  - 4.3.1    DEVS/RT-DEVS 
  - 4.3.2    Application of Metaprogramming to DEVS Simulation. 
- [4.4](4_4.md)    Conclusion 

## References 

1.  Laplante, P. A. 1992. *Real-Time Systems Design and* *Analysis,* *An Engineer’s Handbook*. 2nd ed., 361 pp. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.

2.  Lazaro, D., Z. El Bitar, V. Breton, D. Hill, and I. Buvat. 2005. “Fully 3D Monte Carlo Reconstruction in SPECT: A Feasibility Study.” *Physics in Medicine & Biology* 50: 3739–54.

3.  El Bitar, Z., D. Lazaro, V. Breton, D. Hill, and I. Buvat. 2006. “Fully 3D Monte Carlo Image Reconstruction in SPECT Using Functional Regions.” *Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research* 569: 399–403.

4.  Reuillon, R., D. Hill, Z. El Bitar, and V. Breton. 2008. “Rigorous Distribution of Stochastic Simulations Using the DistMe Toolkit.” *IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science* 55 (1): 595–60.

5.  Innocenti, E., X. Silvani, A. Muzy, and D. Hill. 2009. “A Software Framework for Fine Grain Parallelization of Cellular Models with OpenMP: Application to Fire Spread.” *Environmental Modelling & Software* 24: 819–31.

6.  Wainer, G. A., and P. J. Mosterman. 2011. *Discrete-Event Modeling and Simulation: Theory and Applications*, 534 pp. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

7.  Lee, W. B., and T. G. Kim. 2003. “Simulation Speedup for DEVS Models by Composition-Based Compilation.” In *Summer Computer Simulation Conference*, Montreal, Canada, pp. 395–400.

8.  Hu, X., and B. P. Zeigler. 2004. “A High Performance Simulation Engine for Large- Scale Cellular DEVS Models.” In *High Performance Computing Symposium (HPC’04), Advanced Simulation Technologies Conference (ASTC)*, Arlington.

9.  Muzy, A., and J. J. Nutaro. 2005. “Algorithms for Efficient Implementation of the DEVS & DSDEVS Abstract Simulators.” In *First Open International Conference on Modeling and Simulation (OICMS)*, Clermont-Ferrand, France, pp. 273–80.

10.  Sheard, T. 2001. “Accomplishments and Research Challenges in Meta-Programming.” In *Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Semantics, Applications, and Implementation of Program Generation (SAIG’2001)*, Florence, Italy, LNCS 2196, pp. 2–44.

11.  Damaševičius, R., and V. Štuikys. 2008. “Taxonomy of the Fundamental Concepts of Metaprogramming.” *Information* *Technology and Control, Kaunas, Technologija* 37 (2): 124–32.

12.  Taha, W. 1999. *Multi-Stage Programming: Its Theory and Applications*. PhD disserta- tion, Oregon Graduate Institute of Science and Technology, 171 pp.

13.  Hill, D., and A. Roche. 2002. “Benchmark of the Unrolling of Pseudorandom Numbers Generators.” In *14th European Simulation Symposium*, Dresden, Germany, October 23–26, 2002, pp. 119–29.

14.  Hill, D. 2002. “Object-Oriented Modelling and Post-Genomic Biology Programming Analogies.” In *Proceedings of Artificial Intelligence, Simulation and Planning* (*AIS 2002*), Lisbon, April 7–10, 2002, pp. 329–34.

15.  Hill, D. 2002. “URNG: A Portable Optimisation Technique for Every Software Application Requiring Pseudorandom Numbers.” *Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory* 11: 643–54.

16.  Missaoui, M., D. Hill, and P. Perret. 2008. “A Comparison of Algorithms for a Complete Backtranslation of Oligopeptides.” *Special Issue, International Journal of Computational Biology and Drug Design* 1 (1): 26–38.

17.  Auer, A., P. Kemppainen, A. Okkonen, and V. Seppänen. 1988. “Automated Code Generation of Embedded Real-Time Systems.” *Microprocessing and Microprogramming* 24 (1–5): 51–5.

18.  Ward, P. T., and S. J. Mellor. 1985. *Structured Development for Real-Time Systems*, Vol. I: ISBN 9780138547875, 156 pp.; Vol. II: ISBN 9780138547950, 136 pp.; Vol. III: ISBN 9780138548032, 202 pp. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.

19.  Webster, M. R., D. C. Levy, R. G. Harley, D. R. Woodward, L. Naidoo, M. V. D. Westhuizen, and B. S. Meyer. 1993. “Predictable Parallel Real-Time Code Generation.” *Control Engineering Practice* 1 (3): 449–55.

20.  Lengauer, C. 2004. “Program Optimization in the Domain of High-Performance Parallelism.” In *Domain-Specific Program Generation. International Seminar*, Dagstuhl Castle, Germany, LNCS 3016, pp. 73–91*.* 

21.  Ashenden, P. J. 2001. *The Designer’s Guide to VHDL*. 2nd ed., 759 pp. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann.

22.  Hill, D. 1993. *Analyse Orientée-Objets et Modélisation par Simulation*. 362 pp. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.

23.  Hill, D. 1996. *Object-Oriented Analysis and Simulation*. 291 pp. Boston, MA: Addison- Wesley Longman.

24.  Gordon, G. M. 1962. “A General Purpose Systems Simulator.” *IBM Systems Journal* 1 (1): 18–32.

25.  O’Reilly, J. J., and K. C. Nordlund. 1987. “Introduction to SLAM II and SLAMSYSTEM.” In *Proceedings of the 21st Winter Simulation Conference*, Washington, DC, pp. 178–83.

26.  Crosbie, R. 2012. “Real-Time Simulation Using Hybrid Models.” In *Real-Time Simulation Technologies: Principles, Methodologies, and Applications*, edited by K. Popovici, and P. J. Mosterman. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

27.  Pegden, C. D., R. E. Shannon, and R. P. Sadowski. 1995. *Introduction to Simulation Using SIMAN*. 2nd ed., 600 pp. New York: McGraw-Hill Companies.

28.  Potier, D. 1983. “New User’s Introduction to QNAP2.” INRIA Technical Report No. 40.

29.  Schmidt, D. C. 2006. “Model-Driven Engineering: Guest Editor’s Introduction.” *IEEE Computer Society* 39 (2): 25–31.

30.  Gronback, R. C. 2009. *Eclipse Modeling Project: A Domain-Specific Language (DSL) Toolkit*. 736 pp. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Addison-Wesley Professional.

31.  Hammond, K., and G. Michaelson. 2003. “Hume: A Domain-Specific Language for Real-Time Embedded Systems.” In *Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Generative Programming and Component Engineering*, Erfurt, Germany, LNCS 2830, pp. 37–56.

32.  Dabney, J. B., and T. L. Harman. 2003. *Mastering Simulink****®***, 400 pp. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.

33.  Gamatié, A., C. Brunette, R. Delamare, T. Gautier, and J.-P. Talpin. 2006. “A Modeling Paradigm for Integrated Modular Avionics Design.” In *Proceedings of the 32nd EUROMICRO Conference on Software Engineering and Advanced Applications*, Cavtat, Dubrovnik, pp. 134–43.

34.  Peterson, J., P. Hudak, and C. Elliot. 1999. “Lambda in Motion: Controlling Robots with Haskell.” In *Proceedings of the 1st International Workshop on Practical Aspects of Declarative Languages*, San Antonia, TX, LNCS 1551, pp. 91–105.

35.  Levine, J. R., T. Mason, and D. Brown. 1992. *Lex & Yacc*. 2nd ed., 388 pp. Sebastopol, CA: O’Reilly & Associates.

36.  Fowler, M. 2010. *Domain-Specific Languages*. 640 pp. Boston: Addison-Wesley Professional. ISBN 9780321712943.

37.  Veldhuizen, T. L., and D. Gannon. 1998. “Active Libraries: Rethinking the Roles of Compilers and Libraries.” In *Proceedings of the 1998 SIAM Workshop on Object Oriented Methods for Interoperable Scientific and Engineering Computing*, New York, pp. 286–95.

38.  Veldhuizen, T. L. 1998. “Arrays in Blitz++.” In *Proceedings of the 2nd International Scientific Computing in Object Oriented Parallel Environments (ISCOPE’98)*, LNCS 1505, pp. 223–30. Santa Fe: Springer.

39.  Niebler, E. 2007. “Proto: A Compiler Construction Toolkit for DSELs.” In *Proceedings of the 2007 Symposium on Library-Centric Software Design*, Montreal, Canada, pp. 42–51.

40.  Saidani, T., J. Falcou, C. Tadonki, L. Lacassagne, and D. Etiemble. 2009. “Algorithmic Skeletons within an Embedded Domain Specific Language for the CELL Processor.” In *Proceedings of the 18th International Conference on Parallel Architectures and Compilation Techniques*, Raleigh, pp. 67–76. 

41.  Hawkins, T. 2008. “Controlling Hybrid Vehicles with Haskell.” *Presentation at the 2008 Commercial Users of Functional Programming Conference*, Victoria, Canada.

42.  Peterson, R. S. 2010. *Testing real-time requirements for integrated systems*. Master’s the- sis, University of Twente. Retrieved from [http://essay.utwente.nl/59656/ ](http://essay.utwente.nl/)(last accessed April 2011).

43.  Taha, W., and T. Sheard. 1997. “Multi-Stage Programming with Explicit Annotations.” In *Proceedings of the ACM-SIGPLAN Symposium on Partial Evaluation and Semantic Based Program Manipulations PEPM’97*, Amsterdam, pp. 203–17.

44.  Allard, J. R., and L. B. Hawkinson. 1991. “Real-Time Programming in Common LISP.” *Communications of the ACM – Special Issue on LISP* 34 (9): 64–9.

45.  Veldhuizen, T.L. 2003. *C++ Templates are Turing Complete*. Technical report, Indiana University.

46.  Abrahams, D., and A. Gurtovoy. 2004. *C++ Template Metaprogramming: Concepts, Tools, and Techniques from Boost and Beyond*. 400 pp. Boston: Addison-Wesley Professional. ISBN 9780321227256.

47.  Jones, N. D. 1996. “An Introduction to Partial Evaluation.” *ACM Computing Surveys* 28 (3): 480–503.

48.       Chepovsky, A. M., A. V. Klimov, Y. A. Klimov, A. S. Mischlenko, S. A. Romanenko, and S.Y. Skorobogatov. 2003. “Partial Evaluation for Common Intermediate Language.” In M. Broy and A. V. Zamulin (Eds.), *Perspectives of System Informatics*, LNCS 2890, pp. 171–7.

49.  Herrmann, C. A., and T. Langhammer. 2006. “Combining Partial Evaluation and Staged Interpretation in the Implementation of Domain-Specific Languages.” *Science of Computer Programming* 62 (1): 47–65.

50.  Nirkhe, V., and W. Pugh. 1993. “A Partial Evaluator for the Maruti Hard Real-Time System.” *Real-Time Systems* 5 (1): 13–30.

51.  Zeigler, B. P., H. Praehofer, and T. G. Kim. 2000. *Theory of Modeling and Simulation: Integrating Discrete Event and Continuous Complex Dynamic Systems*. 2nd ed., 510 pp. San Diego, CA: Academic Press.

52.  Hong, J. S., H. S. Song, T. G. Kim, and K. H. Park. 1997. “A Real-Time Discrete Event System Specification Formalism for Seamless Real-Time Software Development.” *Discrete Event Dynamic Systems* 7 (4): 355–75.

53.  Touraille, L., M. K. Traoré, and D. Hill. 2010. “Enhancing DEVS Simulation through Template Metaprogramming: DEVS-MetaSimulator.” In *Proceedings of the 2010 Summer Computer Simulation Conference*, Ottawa, Canada, pp. 394–402.

54.  Allworth, S. T. 1981. *Introduction to Real-Time Software Design*. 128 pp. Macmillan. ISBN 9780333271353.

55.  Ganssle, J. G. 1992. *The Art of Programming Embedded Systems*. 279 pp. San Diego, CA: Academic Press.

56.  Keller, M., and A. Kolb. 2009. “Real-Time Simulation of Time-of-Flight Sensors.” *Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory* 17 (5): 967–78.

57.  Ritschel, T., M. Ihrke, J.-R. Frisvad, J. Coppens, K. Myszkowski, and H.-P. Seidel. 2009. “Temporal Glare: Real-Time Dynamic Simulation of the Scattering in the Human Eye.” *Computer Graphics Forum* 28 (2): 183–92.

58.  Wu, E., Y. Liu, and X. Liu. 2005. “An Improved Study of Real-Time Fluid Simulation on GPU.” *Computer Animation and Virtual Worlds* 15 (3–4): 139–46.