[4.3 <--- ](4_3.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 5](5.md)

## 4.4. CONCLUSION

In this chapter, we introduced several metaprogramming techniques for improving program performance that can be used in the development of real-time software [54,55]. The optimization of the real-time simulation code can include low-level optimizations such as loop unrolling and recoding critical parts in assembly language or even in microcode. In this chapter, we considered optimization at a much higher level that we did not find in the current state of the art in real-time simulation. We discussed different code generation techniques (generation of data and instructions) and also presented the input of DSLs, programming or model- ing languages dedicated to a particular domain. MSPLs were also discussed; they include constructs for concisely building object programs guaranteed to be syn- tactically correct. This class of programming languages includes C++, through the use of TMP. Finally, we offered some insights on partial evaluation, a powerful and automatic method for specializing programs to obtain better performance such as shorter execution time and lower memory footprint. Each of these approaches has already been successfully applied to real-time programming, as can be seen in the numerous references provided. We also proposed a comparison of all the techniques described. A table will help in selecting the most appropriate technique given a set of requirements, since no technique is universally optimal. To provide a more detailed case study using a specific technique, we presented how C++ TMP can be used to develop a DEVS metasimulator exhibiting significant improvements over traditional simulators.

The next avenue we want to investigate is applying metaprogramming techniques to multicore programming. A more powerful architecture must be considered when a simulation runs slower than real time. The increase in raw computing performance is now linked to parallel architectures. Among these architectures, the GP-GPU (General-Purpose Graphical Processing Unit) technology is an easy, inexpensive, and efficient way to allow processing of large data on a personal computer. Much currently available literature has already revealed that it is possible to use the com- putational capability of GPUs to implement real-time simulations of complex models [56–58]. However, to make the most of it, the development work is still substantial, mainly because of the slow memory accesses that often force the developer to sig- nificantly modify the sequential implementation. The new generation of GP-GPU and the template facilities of the latest release of the NVIDIA C/C++ compiler will help in making up for many of these problems. Together with the increase of com- putational power and the additional fast local memory available on the GPU cards, it will allow developers to implement much more efficient real-time simulations for various domains.

[4.3 <--- ](4_3.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 5](5.md)

