[4 <--- ](4.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 6](6.md)

# 5. Modeling with UML and Its Real-Time Profiles

*Emilia* *Farcas,* *Ingolf* *H.* *Krüger,* *and Massimiliano Menarini*

**CONTENTS**

- [5.1](5_1.md)    Introduction 
  - 5.1.1    Challenges for MBE in Embedded Systems. 
  - 5.1.2    MBE Process 
  - 5.1.3    Outline. 
- [5.2](5_2.md)     Requirements for Modeling Languages 
- [5.3](5_3.md)     Modeling with UML. 
  - 5.3.1    Metamodeling Architecture. 
  - 5.3.2    Modeling with UML. 
    - 5.3.2.1    Requirements Modeling with UML. 
    - 5.3.2.2    Modeling Logical and Technical Architectures with UML. 
    - 5.3.2.3    UML Basics by Example. 
  - 5.3.3    UML Extension Mechanism 
  - 5.3.4    UML Behavioral Semantics 
- [5.4 ](5_4.md)    UML Extensions for Real Time 
  - 5.4.1    Overview of UML Profiles 
  - 5.4.2    Modeling and Analysis of Real-Time and Embedded Systems 
    - 5.4.2.1    MARTE Basics. 
    - 5.4.2.2    MARTE Semantics. 
    - 5.4.2.3    MARTE Example. 
- [5.5](5_5.md)     Discussion and Open Issues 
- [5.6](5_6.md)     Summary and Outlook. 

## ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This work was partially supported by the NSF within projects CCF-0702791 and CNS-0963702 and by funds from the California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology (Calit2) at the University of California, San Diego. We are grateful to Barry Demchak and the anonymous reviewers for insightful comments.

## REFERENCES

1.  Giese, H., G. Karsai, E. Lee, B. Rumpe, and B. Schätz. 2011. *Model-Based Engineering of Embedded Real-Time Systems*, Vol. 6100. Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer.

2.  Object Management Group. 2010. “Unified Modeling Language (OMG UML), Infrastructure, Version 2.3.” formal/2010-05-03, OMG.

3.  Object Management Group. 2010. “Unified Modeling Language (OMG UML), Superstructure, Version 2.3.” formal/2010-05-05, OMG.

4.  Sprinkle, J., B. Rumpe, H. Vangheluwe, and G. Karsai. 2011. “Metamodelling: State of the Art and Research Challenges*.*” In *Model-Based Engineering of Embedded Real- Time Systems*, edited by H. Giese, G. Karsai, E. Lee, B. Rumpe, and B. Schätz, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 6100, pp. 57–76. Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer.

5.  MathWorks. 8 April 2011. MATLAB. 7.12*.* [http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/](http://www.mathworks.com/).

6.  MathWorks. 8 April 2011. Simulink. 7.7. [http://www.mathworks.com/products/simulink/](http://www.mathworks.com/).

7.  ETAS. April 2011. ASCET. 6.1.2. [http://www.etas.com/sen/products/ascet_software_](http://www.etas.com/) [products.php](http://www.etas.com/).

8.  Object Management Group. 2003. “Model Driven Architecture (MDA) v1.0.1.” omg/ 03-06-01, OMG.

9.  Nicolescu, G., and P. Mosterman. 2009. *Model-Based Design for Embedded Systems*, pp. 766. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

10.      France, R., and B. Rumpe. 2007. “Model-Driven Development of Complex Software: A. Research Roadmap.” In *Proceeding of Future of Software Engineering (FOSE’07)*, L. Briand and A. Wolf (Eds.), pp. 37–54. Minneapolis, MN, USA, Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society.

11.  Sztipanovits, J., and G. Karsai. April 1997. “Model-Integrated Computing.” *Computer* 30 (4): 110–11. Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society.

12.  Balasubramanian, K., A. Gokhale, G. Karsai, J. Sztipanovits, and S. Neema. 2006. “Developing Applications Using Model-Driven Design Environments.” *Computer* 39 (2): 33–40 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society.

13.  Fowler, M. 2004. *UML Distilled Third Edition: A Brief Guide to the Standard Object Modeling Language*. Boston, MA: Addison-Wesley.

14.  Pretschner, A., M. Broy, I. H. Krüger, and T. Stauner. May. 2007. “Software Engineering for Automotive Systems: A Roadmap.” In *Proceeding of Future of Software Engineering* *(FOSE’07),* L. Briand and A. Wolf (Eds.), pp. 55–71. Minneapolis, MN, USA, Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society.

15.  Department of Defense. 2010. “The Department of Defense Architecture Framework (DoDAF) Version 2.02.” DoD.

16.  Boehm, B. W. 1988. “A Spiral Model of Software Development and Enhancement.” *Computer* 21 (5): 61–72 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society.

17.  Winter, V., F. Kordon, and M. Lemoine. 2004. “The BART Case Study*.*” In *Formal Methods for Embedded Distributed Systems*, edited by F. Kordon, and M. Lemoine, pp. 3–22. New York: Springer.

18.  Object Management Group. 2009. “UML Profile for MARTE: Modeling and Analysis of Real-Time Embedded Systems” Version 1.0, formal/2009-11-02, OMG.

19.  Gérard, S., H. Espinoza, F. Terrier, and B. Selic. 2011. “Modeling Languages for Real-Time and Embedded Systems: Requirements and Standards-Based Solutions*.*” In *Model-Based Engineering of Embedded Real-Time Systems*, edited by H. Giese, G. Karsai, E. Lee, B. Rumpe, and B. Schätz, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 6100, pp. 129–54. Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer.

20.  Horowitz, B. 2003. “Giotto: A Time-Triggered Language for Embedded Programming.” Doctoral Dissertation, University of California, Berkeley.

21.  Henzinger, T. A., C. M. Kirsch, M. A. A. Sanvido, and W. Pree. February 2003. “From Control Models to Real-Time Code Using Giotto.” 23 (1): 50–64. New York, NY: IEEE Control Systems Magazine,

22.  Henzinger, T. A., B. Horowitz, and C. M. Kirsch. 2001. “Embedded Control Systems Development with Giotto.” In *Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN workshop on Languages, Compilers and Tools for Embedded Systems (LCTES’01)*, pp. 64–72, New York, NY, USA: ACM.

23.  Templ, J. 2008. TDL: Timing Definition Language 1.5 Specification, preeTEC GmbH.

24.  Farcas, E., C. Farcas, W. Pree, and J. Templ. 2005. “Transparent Distribution of Real-time Components Based on Logical Execution Time.” In *Proceedings of ACM SIGPLAN/SIGBED Conference on Languages, Compilers, and Tools for Embedded Systems (LCTES)*, pp. 31–9. New York: ACM Press.

25.  Object Management Group. 2006. “Meta Object Facility (MOF), Version 2.0.” for- mal/2006-01-01, OMG.

26.  Douglass, B. 2004. *Real-Time UML: Advances in the UML for Real-Time Systems*. Boston: Addison-Wesley.

27.  Douglass, B. 2003. *Real-Time Design Patterns: Robust Scalable Architecture for Real- Time Systems*. Boston: Addison-Wesley.

28.  Douglass, B. P. 1999. *Doing Hard Time: Developing Real-Time Systems with UML, Objects, Frameworks, and Patterns*, pp. 800, Boston: Addison-Wesley.

29.  Warmer, J., and A. Kleppe. 1998. *The Object Constraint Language: Precise Modeling with UML,* pp. 144, Boston: Addison-Wesley.

30.  ITU. 1996. “Message Sequence Charts (MSC).” ITU-TS Recommendation Z.120.

31.  Krüger, I. H. 2000. “Distributed System Design with Message Sequence Charts.” Doctoral Dissertation, Technical University of Munich, Germany.

32.  Broy, M., M. Crane, J. Dingel, A. Hartman, B. Rumpe, and B. Selic. 2007. “2nd UML 2 Semantics Symposium: Formal Semantics for UML*.*” In *Models in Software Engineering*, edited by T. Kühne, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 4364, pp. 318–23. Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer.

33.  Selic, B. 2004. “On the Semantic Foundations of Standard UML 2.0*.*” In *Formal Methods for the Design of Real-Time Systems*, edited by M. Bernardo, and F. Corradini, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 3185, pp. 75–6. Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer.

34.  Chen, R., M. Sgroi, L. Lavagno, G. Martin, A. Sangiovanni-Vincentelli, and J. Rabaey. 2003. “UML and Platform-Based Design.” In *UML for Real: Design of Embedded Real- time Systems*, pp. 107–26. Netherlands: Kluwer Academic Publishers.

35.  Selic, B., and J. Rumbaugh. 1998. *Using UML for Modeling Complex Real-Time Systems*. Objectime Limited.

36.  Selic, B. 1998. “Using UML for modeling complex real-time systems.” In *Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN Workshop on Languages, Compilers, and Tools for Embedded Systems*, pp. 250–60. London, UK: Springer-Verlag.

37.  Selic, B., G. Gullekson, J. McGee, and I. Engelberg. 1992. “ROOM: An Object-Oriented Methodology for Developing Real-Time Systems.” In *Proceedings of 5th International Workshop on Computer-Aided Software Engineering*, pp. 230–40. IEEE Computer Society.

38.  Krüger, I. H., W. Prenninger, R. Sandner, and M. Broy. 2002. “From Scenarios to Hierarchical Broadcasting Software Architectures using UML-RT.” *International Journal of Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering* 12 (2): 155–74 World Scientific Publishing.

39.  Krüger, I., W. Prenninger, R. Sandner, and M. Broy. 2004. “Development of Hierarchical Broadcasting Software Architectures using UML 2.0*.*” In *Integration of Software Specification Techniques for Applications in Engineering. Priority Program SoftSpez of the German Research Foundation (DFG). Final Report*, edited by H. Ehrig, W. Damm, J. Desel, et al., Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 3147, pp. 29–47. Berlin/ Heidelberg: Springer.

40.  Object Management Group. 2005. “UML Profile for Schedulability, Performance, and Time, Version 1.1.” formal/05-01-02, OMG.

41.  Object Management Group. 2008. “UML Profile for Modeling Quality of Service and Fault Tolerance Characteristics and Mechanism, Version 1.1.” formal/2008-04-05, OMG.

42.  Object Management Group. 2010. “Systems Modeling Language Version 1.2.” for- mal/2010-06-01, OMG.

43.  Espinoza, H., D. Cancila, B. Selic, and S. Gérard. 2009. “Challenges in Combining SysML and MARTE for Model-Based Design of Embedded Systems*.*” In *Model Driven Architecture: Foundations and Applications*, edited by R. Paige, A. Hartman, and A. Rensink, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 5562, pp. 98–113. Berlin/ Heidelberg: Springer.

44.  Feiler, P. H. 2009. *The SAE Architecture Analysis & Design Language (AADL)*, SAE International Document AS-5506A ed.

45.  France, R. B., S. Ghosh, T. Dinh-Trong, and A. Solberg. 2006. “Model-Driven Development Using UML 2.0: Promises and Pitfalls.” *Computer* 39 (2): 59–66 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society.