[5.1 <--- ](5_1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 5.3](5_3.md)

## 5.2. REQUIREMENTS FOR MODELING LANGUAGES

In the following, we present a set of requirements that modeling languages should meet for a comprehensive methodology of real-time systems. We have identified these requirements based on our experience in several automotive projects with industry partners. The list is not intended to be exhaustive, as further requirements have been presented elsewhere (e.g., Gerard et al. [19]). We focus our presentation on the specification capabilities of a modeling language and not on the entire end-to-end MBE approach nor on the tools necessary to implement it.

•   *Consistency.* A modeling language should allow grouping of requirements, structure, behavior, and analysis in a single, integrated system model. Therefore, the language should allow consistency checking for models expressed in different notations, developed in different design iterations, or models that are part of different views/slices of the same system.

•   *Traceability.* Requirements should be mappable to a precise specification of the system and from there to implementation while the mapping should be kept current during the system evolution. Traceability also applies to models at different levels of abstraction, enabling conformance checking for refinement operations.

•   *Realizability.* Models often represent partial specifications that are refined in successive iterations in the development cycle. Models also represent different views on the system. The underlying question is whether the models allow a system to be constructed such that all requirements are fulfilled. At the very least, we would like to know which requirements stand in the way of realizability.

•   *Distribution and integration.* System behavior emerges as the interplay of the functionality provided by subsystems, often developed independently by different suppliers. Thus, models should be capable of expressing concurrency and synchronization. Furthermore, since the OEM is responsible for the integration of subsystems, modeling should support overarching system specification, addressing the integration requirements as well as concerns that cut across the individual components such as resource optimization across the integrated system.

•   *Interdisciplinary domains.* Embedded systems design involves multiple domains such as mechanical, electronics, and software. The system components are often designed at different stages in the development process, by different teams, using different tools and languages. A common modeling language should ease integration and tradeoff analysis, and it should reduce the need for *disruptive* feedback iteration cycles.

•   *Nonfunctional properties.* A modeling language should allow specifying nonfunctional properties (such as performance, reliability, and power consumption) associated with behaviors, refinement relationships, deployment models, etc. Moreover, the set of nonfunctional properties should not be predefined and the language should support the specification of applicationspecific properties.

•   *Resource models.* Embedded systems interact with the physical world and are constrained by the resources provided by the hardware and software platforms. Therefore, a specification should support modeling of platforms and resources, as well as allocation and optimization of resources to meet the functional and nonfunctional requirements.

•   *Timing.* Time plays a critical role in real-time systems and, therefore, a modeling notation should express timing requirements in various temporal models: (i) causal models, which are concerned only with the order of activities, (ii) synchronous models, which use the concept of simultaneity of events at discrete time instants, (iii) real-time scheduled models, which take physical durations and the timing of activities as influenced by central processing unit (CPU) speed, scheduler, utilization, etc., into account, and (iii) logical time models (e.g., Giotto [20–22] and TDL [23,24]), which consider that activities take a fixed logical amount of time, assuming that the platform can execute all activities to meet their constraints.

•   *Heterogeneous models of computation and communication.* Real-time systems are often embedded systems that control physical processes, which are often represented in terms of mathematical models. A modeling specification should support continuous behaviors, discrete event-based or timebased behaviors, or combinations thereof.

In the following sections, we present an overview of modeling with UML and its profiles. In Section 5.5, we revisit the requirements identified above and identify open issues in UML.

[5.1 <--- ](5_1.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 5.3](5_3.md)

