[5.4 <--- ](5_4.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 5.6](5_6.md)

## 5.5. DISCUSSION AND OPEN ISSUES

UML is a well-established language, with advanced tool support and an active community of developers that evolve the standard. The language has been developed with the goal of having a general purpose modeling language. It supports different types of systems, in different domains, and people with different backgrounds and expertise. This flexibility is the main strength of the UML. However, flexibility has a price. Many of the issues reported by researchers in working with the UML originate from the design decision of making it flexible and adaptable to multiple usage scenarios. In particular, problems arise in the field of UML model consistency, system synthesis, and model transformation.

In the following, we discuss to what degree UML meets the requirements for modeling languages identified in Section 5.2.

•   *Consistency.* As discussed in Section 5.3.4, the semantics of UML is open for extensions. The UML standard from OMG does not provide a complete formal semantics and leaves many options in the language open for specialization. However, having formal semantics is a key enabler both to supporting model consistency and to leveraging UML in safety-critical systems. In fact, for safety-critical systems, it is often mandated to formally prove various properties. Moreover, in the domain of real-time systems, some level of semantics is required to support analysis tools, such as tools for scheduling. Because of its incomplete semantics, UML cannot be used directly for realtime systems simulation and verification. Profiles such as MARTE aim at adding sufficient semantics to the UML to support analysis tools.

•   *Traceability.* UML use case diagrams have been traditionally used to document requirements, but they have a number of limitations including their lack of well-defined semantics. Other diagrams such as sequence diagrams can be used for requirements engineering to model the next level of detail from use cases. However, the relation between the requirements models (see Section 5.3.2.1) and the architectural ones (see Section 5.3.2.2) is typically difficult to trace in the UML. SysML adds requirements modeling as a key engineering activity and it provides traceability to requirements throughout the design flow; in SysML, a requirement can be related to a model element that satisfies or verifies the requirement. However, the requirements notion of SysML is again not a formal one, and thus not immediately amenable to a precise modeling approach in relation to the associated architectural models. Furthermore, MDA—also an OMG standard—supports traceability within the architectural models from PIM to PSM, both specified in UML. In fact, a PSM is obtained from a PIM through a series of transformations, although the platform model is often hard-coded in the transformation. Through its various subprofiles, MARTE provides support for making platform models explicit. Therefore, platform models can be an explicit input to the model transformation for the target platform.

•   *Realizability.* UML models have several uses. In the real-time domain, they are often used to verify system properties (even before building the system) and to generate part of the implementation. A problem that can arise is that it is not possible to realize the model, given some implementation constraints. For example, constraints on the CPU could make it impossible to fulfill some timing constraint. Therefore, it is important to always revise the models during the development process to ensure that all assumptions taken in analyzing models are fulfilled by the implementation.

•   *Distribution and integration.* A key issue in modeling large embedded systems is that the modeling activity is often distributed across different teams and even different organizations. In cases where the modeling activity is distributed, the UML must support independent modeling of different parts of the system, which will cause conflicts and inconsistences. Therefore, projects with distributed models must establish a model integration process and leverage tools to manage inconsistencies.

•   *Interdisciplinary domains.* Through its built-in profile mechanism, UML can be tailored for various domains or different target platforms. Defining a custom domain-specific language ab initio has the advantage that the language can be optimized for the target domain, but complex systems often have various concerns that are modeled separately, and integrating models defined in different languages is not an easy task. The advantage of UML is that it provides an integrated framework, where profiles specialize UML concepts and, therefore, can be used with existing UML tools. Nevertheless, if the interdisciplinary application requires combining more than one UML profile, there are significant issues with overlapping and inconsistent language specification across the two profiles, especially when the two disciplines to be integrated are sufficiently close so that their domain representations in the respective profiles overlap. These issues necessitate careful, domain-specific integration of the profiles, because the UML itself provides no strong interface concept for profiles

•   *Nonfunctional properties.* Several UML profiles including SPT, QoS & FT, and MARTE provide extensions to support various nonfunctional properties. MARTE allows specifying properties such as throughputs, bandwidths, delays, and memory usage, and these follow a well-defined textual syntax—MARTE introduces the VSL to formulate algebraic and time expressions. VSL is based on OCL but also provides time-related annotations. Section 5.4.2 provides more details on the specification capabilities of MARTE. Notably, UML models can be annotated with nonfunctional properties, given that annotation is a nonintrusive operation on an existing model to add additional information necessary for analysis. For example, MARTE can be used for requirements engineering to annotate nonfunctional requirements in use cases and the corresponding sequence diagrams.

•   *Resource models.* MARTE provides a taxonomy for software and hardware resources, which support specifying computing platforms at different levels of abstractions and with their corresponding nonfunctional properties such as memory usage and power consumption. Support for modeling time, resources, allocation, and other qualitative and quantitative concerns is included in various subprofiles in MARTE. Other work [19] discusses the coverage provided by each subprofile. For example, resource modeling is addressed by the GRM, SRM, HRM, GQAM, SAM, PAM, and RSM subprofiles (see Section 5.4.2).

•   *Timing.* The time model in UML is trivial, but MARTE provides significant extensions and supports three models of time: chronometric, logical, and synchronous. MARTE provides fundamental time notions such as time instant, duration, time bases, and clocks, while it supports multiple time bases for distributed systems. MARTE also introduces the key concept of observation, which enables a time constraint to be specified as a predicate on timed observations. Moreover, time concepts are not just annotations but they are defined as part of the system behavior.

•   *Heterogeneous models of computation and communication.* Several embedded systems require more than one model of computation to reflect the nature of the application domain, whereas UML supports only event-based models. Therefore, several proposals have been made to extend UML with support for continuous time by using stereotypes to represent continuous variables, time, and derivatives [28]; a programming language for hybrid systems [29]; and a dataflow mechanism (distinguishing between signal ports and data ports) coupled with mathematical equations, called D-UML [30]. The model of computation in MARTE is an asynchronous/event-based approach but alternative models can be defined as extensions to the MARTE specification.

[5.4 <--- ](5_4.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 5.6](5_6.md)