[5.5 <--- ](5_5.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 6](6.md)

## 5.6. SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK

In this chapter, we have presented UML and some of its profiles specifically tailored for real-time systems. Using specific profiles, UML models can be leveraged for design and analysis during the development of real-time embedded systems. Models are a key asset in complex embedded systems, as they provide reusability across product generations, help in eliciting and specifying requirements, facilitate integration of components developed by different suppliers, support system verification before deployment, and support synthesis and deployment.

UML has evolved over the years to support more modeling techniques and adapt to novel tasks. In its latest incarnation 2.3, UML is a substantial improvement over the original version. As noticed in other works [10,45], UML has maintained many promises but has still some pitfalls that limit its utility.

The main promises it maintained are the support for multiple notations as part of a single language and the support for profiles to modify the language and its semantics. Furthermore, UML is supported by a plethora of tools to create and analyze models.

The main pitfalls attributed to UML are concerned with its complex and bloated metamodel, which makes it difficult to master the language in its details, and the lack of semantics associated to some elements (i.e., aggregation), which creates confusion and different interpretations from different tool manufacturers.

In this chapter, we presented the facilities of UML for dealing with time. UML 2.x can specify time properties by means of Time Duration and Observation (of time passing). The basic time facilities and time constraints are, however, too simple to address requirements of real-time systems. The UML standard itself suggests using a profile (see the UML Superstructure standard document [3] Chapter 13) to enhance the ability to specify time properties. Following this suggestion, MARTE adds a comprehensive ontology of time and a language, VSL, to write time constraints. In addition, SysML provides facilities to support continuous time in addition to discrete events.

More research is required to unlock the full potential of the UML and to make it more applicable to the real-time systems domain. In particular, the UML metamodel should be restructured and streamlined to simplify the definition of semantics variations and the creation of tools. Specifically, the current language specialization facilities (such as profiles) require a profound understanding of most of the complex UML metamodel. Furthermore, the specialization builds upon the full metamodel, adding further elements and relations (as we have shown for MARTE in this chapter). Therefore, the use of a particular profile implies a profound understanding of all of the UML intricacies plus the ones added by the profile. A substantial usability improvement would emanate from an option to eliminate parts of the metamodel that are irrelevant for a given application domain.

The other part of UML that requires substantial improvement is the semantics definition. The existence of alternative semantics for some elements and the absence of semantics for others confuse users of the standard. Profiles are supposed to lock down the semantics of some elements. However, the existence of different interpretations for the meaning of some modeling elements increases the chances of models being misinterpreted by users who are not experts in a particular profile.

Moreover, UML does not provide the necessary support for checking and enforcing model consistency. Modeling involves multiple diagram types (thus, multiple modeling languages) that focus on specific aspects of a system. Therefore, ensuring consistency between models is key for system synthesis and analysis. In Chapter 12, we will focus on the topic of model consistency for UML and cover the issues of consistency checking, assigning semantics to UML diagrams and integrating multiple models into a coherent system model.

[5.5 <--- ](5_5.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 6](6.md)