[5 <--- ](5.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 7](7.md)

# 6. Modeling and Simulation of Timing Behavior with the Timing Definition Language

*Josef* *Templ,* *Andreas* *Naderlinger,* *Patricia* *Derler, Peter Hintenaus, Wolfgang* *Pree, and Stefan Resmerita*

- [6.1](6_1.md)	Introduction	
- [6.2](6_2.md)	Timing Definition Language	
  - 6.2.1	TDL Properties	
    - 6.2.1.1	Time and Value Determinism	
    - 6.2.1.2	Portability	
    - 6.2.1.3	Transparent Distribution	
    - 6.2.1.4	Time Safety	
    - 6.2.1.5	Compositionality	
  - 6.2.2	TDL Language Constructs	
    - 6.2.2.1	Modules	
    - 6.2.2.2	Ports	
    - 6.2.2.3	Tasks	
    - 6.2.2.4	Modes	
    - 6.2.2.5	Asynchronous (= Event-Triggered) Activities	
  - 6.2.3	Example TDL Modules	
  - 6.2.4	TDL Toolchain	
    - 6.2.4.1	E-code	
- [6.3](6_3.md)	TDL Integration with MATLAB® and Simulink®	
  - 6.3.1	Application Developer’s Perspective	
    - 6.3.1.1	Extension of the TDL Toolchain for MATLAB® and Simulink®	
    - 6.3.1.2	Modeling	
    - 6.3.1.3	Simulation	
    - 6.3.1.4	Platform Mapping and Code Generation	
  - 6.3.2    Implementation Perspective. 
    - 6.3.2.1    Resolving Data Dependencies 
- [6.4](6_4.md)    Tdl Integration With Ptolemy Ii. 
  - 6.4.1    TDL Domain 
- [6.5](6_5.md)    Comparison between the Simulink® and the Ptolemy II Integration. 
- [6.6](6_6.md)    Related Work. 
- [6.7](6_7.md)    Conclusion. 

## REFERENCES

1.  Edmondson, James, and Doug Schmidt. 2012. “Towards Accurate Simulation of Large- Scale Systems via Time Dilation.” In *Real-Time Simulation Technologies: Principles, Methodologies, and Applications*, edited by Katalin Popovici, Pieter J. Mosterman. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

2.  Stankovic, John A. 1988. “Misconceptions about Real-Time Computing: A Serious Problem for Next-Generation Systems.” *Computer* 21 (10): 10–9.

3.  Henzinger, Tom, Ben Horowitz, and Christoph Kirsch. 2003. “Giotto: A Time-Triggered Language for Embedded Programming.” *Proceedings of the IEEE* 91: 84–99.

4.  Chrona. 2011. [http://www.chrona.com](http://www.chrona.com/).

5.  Zander, Justyna, Ina Schieferdecker, and Pieter J. Mosterman, eds. 2011. *Model-Based Testing for Embedded Systems*. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

6.  MathWorks. 2011. [www.mathworks.com](http://www.mathworks.com/).

7.  Eker, Johan, Jorn Janneck, Edward A. Lee, Jie Liu, Xiaojun Liu, Jozsef Ludvig, Stephen Neuendorffer, Sonia R. Sachs, and Yuhong Xiong. 2003. “Taming Heterogeneity: The Ptolemy Approach.” *Proceedings of the IEEE, Special Issue on Modeling and Design of Embedded Software* 91 (1): 127–44.

8.  TDL language report, white papers, tool demo, and tool download. 2011. [http://www](http://www.chrona.com/en/resources/white-papers).

9.  Kopetz, Hermann. 1997. *Real-Time Systems: Design Principles for Distributed Embedded Applications*. Norwell, MA: Kluwer Academic Publishers.

10.  Farcas, Emilia, Claudiu Farcas, Wolfgang Pree, and Josef Templ. 2005. “Transparent Distribution of Real-Time Components Based on Logical Execution Time.” *SIGPLAN Not* 40 (7): 31–9.

11.  Franklin, Gene, Michael Workman, and David Powell. 1997. *Digital* *Control* *of* *Dynamic* *Systems.* 3rd ed. Boston, MA: Addison-Wesley Longman Publishing Co.

12.  Scaife, Norman, and Paul Caspi. 2004. “Integrating Model-Based Design and Preemptive Scheduling in Mixed Time- and Event-Triggered Systems.” In *Proceedings of the 16th Euromicro Conference on Real-Time Systems (ECRTS ’04)*, Catania, Italy, pp. 119–126, Washington, DC: IEEE Computer Society.

13.  Templ, Josef, Johannes Pletzer, and Wolfgang Pree. 2009. “Lock-Free Synchronization of Data Flow between Time-Triggered and Event-Triggered Activities in a Dependable Real-Time System.” In *Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Dependability*, DEPEND, pp. 87–92. Washington, DC: IEEE Computer Society.

14.  Templ, Josef, Johannes Pletzer, and Andreas Naderlinger. 2008. *Extending TDL with Asynchronous Activities*, Technical Report, University of Salzburg, [http://www](http://www.softwareresearch.net/fileadmin/src/docs/publications/T022.pdf).

15.  OSEK/VDX. 2004. *System Generation, OIL: OSEK Implementation Language, Specification Version 2.5*. [www.osek-vdx.org](http://www.osek-vdx.org/).

16.  Henzinger, Thomas A., and Christoph M. Kirsch. 2002. “The Embedded Machine: Predictable, Portable Real-Time Code.” ACM Trans. Program. Lang. Syst., 29(6):33–61, October 2007.

17.  Stieglbauer, Gerald, and Wolfgang Pree. 2004. *Visual and Interactive Development of Hard Real Time Code*. Automotive Software Workshop (ASWSD), San Diego.

18.  Stieglbauer, Gerald. 2007. *Model-Based Development of Embedded Control Software with TDL and Simulink*. PhD thesis, University of Salzburg.

19.  MathWorks. 2010. *Real-Time Workshop Embedded Coder 5, User’s Guide*.

20.  Farcas, Claudiu. 2006. *Towards Portable Real-Time Software Components*. PhD thesis, University of Salzburg.

21.  Naderlinger, Andreas. 2009. *Modeling of Real-Time Software Systems Based on Logical Execution Time*. PhD thesis, University of Salzburg.

22.  Denckla, Ben. 2006. “Many Cyclic Block Diagrams Do Not Need Parallel Semantics.”*SIGPLAN Not* 41 (8): 16–20.

23.  Mosterman, Pieter J., and John E. Ciolfi. 2004. “Interleaved Execution to Resolve Cyclic Dependencies in Time-Based Block Diagrams.” In *CDC ’04: Proceedings of the 43rd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control*, pp. 4057–62.

24.  Naderlinger, Andreas, Josef Templ, and Wolfgang Pree. 2009. “Simulating Real-Time Software Components Based on Logical Execution Time.” In SCSC ‘09: *Proceedings of the Summer Computer Simulation Conference,* pp. 148–155.

25.  Iercan, Daniel, and Elza Circiu. 2008. “Modeling in Simulink Temporal Behavior of a Real-Time Control Application Specified in HTL.” *Journal of Control Engineering and Applied Informatics (CEAI)* 10 (4): 55–62.

26.  Carloni, Luca, Maria D. Di Benedetto, Roberto Passerone, Alessandro Pinto, and Alberto Sangiovanni-Vincentelli. 2004. *Modeling Techniques, Programming Languages* *and Design Toolsets for Hybrid Systems*. Technical Report IST-2001-38314 WPHS, Columbus Project.

27.  Bourke, Timothy, and Arcot Sowmya. 2005. Formal Models in Industry Standard Tools: An Argos Block within Simulink. *International Journal of Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering* 15 (2): 389–96.

28.  Bourke, Timothy, and Arcot Sowmya. 2006. “A Timing Model for Synchronous Language Implementations in Simulink.” In *EMSOFT ’06: Proceedings of the 6th ACM & IEEE International Conference on Embedded Software*, pp. 93–101. New York: ACM.

29.  Caspi, Paul, Adrian Curic, Aude Maignan, Christos Sofronis, and Stavros Tripakis. 2003. “Translating Discrete-Time Simulink to Lustre.” In Rajeev Alur and Insup Lee, editors, EMSOFT, volume 2855 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pp. 84–99. Springer.

30.  Scaife, Norman, Christos Sofronis, Paul Caspi, Stavros Tripakis, and Florence Maraninchi. 2004. “Defining and Translating a “Safe” Subset of Simulink/Stateflow into Lustre.” In *EMSOFT ’04: Proceedings of the 4th ACM International Conference On Embedded Software*, pp. 259–68. New York: ACM.

31.  Caspi, Paul, Adrian Curic, Aude Maignan, Christos Sofronis, Stavros Tripakis, and Peter Niebert. 2003. “From Simulink to SCADE/Lustre to TTA: A Layered Approach for Distributed Embedded Applications.” *SIGPLAN Not* 38 (7): 153–62.

32.  Cervin, Anton, and Karl-Erik Arzén. 2009. *Model-Based Design for Embedded Systems,* chapter *TrueTime: Simulation Tool for Performance Analysis of Real-Time Embedded Systems*. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

33.  Liu, Xiaojun, Stephen Neuendorfer, Yang Zhao, Haiyang Zheng, Christopher Brooks, and Edward A. Lee. eds. 2007. *Heterogeneous Concurrent Modeling and Design in Java (Volume 3: Ptolemy II Domains)*. Berkeley, CA: EECS Department, University of California, UCB/EECS-2007–9.

34.  Pree, Wolfgang, and Josef Templ. 2004. “Towards a Component Architecture for Hard Real Time Control Applications.” In Manfred Broy, Ingolf Krüger, and Michael Meisinger, editors, Automotive Software, Connected Services in Mobile Networks, volume 4147 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pp. 74–85. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer.