[6 <--- ](6.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 6.2](6_2.md)

## 6.1. INTRODUCTION

Traditional development of software for embedded systems is highly platform specific. Exploiting a specific platform enables reducing cost of hardware to a mini- mum, whereas high development costs of software are considered acceptable in the case of large quantities of devices being sold. Nowadays, with ever more powerful processors in the low-cost range, we observe even more of a shift of functionality from hardware to software and a general tendency toward more ambitious require- ments. Modern cars or airplanes, for example, contain dozens of the so-called electronic control units interconnected by multiple buses and are driven by several million lines of code. To cope with the increased complexity of the embedded soft- ware, a platform-independent “high-level” programming style becomes mandatory, as testing alone can never identify all the errors. In particular, in the case of safety- critical real-time software, this applies not only to functional aspects but to the tem- poral behavior of the software as well. Dealing with time, however, is not covered at all by any of the existing high-level imperative languages. Simulation environments that offer delay blocks allow at best the approximation of the simulated behavior to the behavior on the execution platform.

One reason is that execution and communication times related to computational tasks of an application can have a substantial influence on the application behavior that is unaccounted for in high-level models [1]. Consequently, the implementation of a model on a certain execution platform may violate requirements that are proved to be satisfied in the model. Explicitly considering execution times at higher levels of abstractions has been proposed as a way to achieve satisfaction of real-time proper- ties [2]. One promising direction in this respect is the logical execution time (LET) [3]. This chapter presents the explicit specification of the timing behavior using the LET-based notation called Timing Definition Language (TDL). TDL is under active, commercially supported development [4]. As simulation is widely used in industry for testing and validation of complex systems (e.g., Ref. [5]), it is important to be able to simulate TDL-based systems. Thus, we describe how TDL has been integrated with two distinctly different simulation environments, that is, MATLAB® and Simulink®

[6] from MathWorks® and Ptolemy [7], an open source environment developed at the University of California at Berkeley. Where MATLAB and Simulink is treated as yet another execution platform, Ptolemy is more closely aligned with TDL principles and so offers simulation capabilities that allow a more straightforward integration of TDL. We chose these two simulation environments to demonstrate two quite differ- ent approaches for simulating TDL-based systems.


 Modeling and Simulation of Timing Behavior

[6 <--- ](6.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 6.2](6_2.md)