[6.4 <--- ](6_4.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 6.6](6_6.md)

## 6.5. COMPARISON BETWEEN THE SIMULINK® AND THE PTOLEMY II INTEGRATION

In the Simulink integration, the developer models the functionality (task implementa- tions and the plant) as usual with Simulink blocks. Timing, mode switching logic, and the overall application data flow are expressed in TDL with the TDL:VisualCreator tool. The TDL toolchain automatically creates a simulation model that contains data flow and timing information. On the other hand, the open and extensible architecture of Ptolemy facilitates the expression of all TDL semantics directly in the model. In Ptolemy, the timing specifications of TDL are expressed as properties of the respec- tive actors (i.e., within the simulation model), whereas in Simulink, we abstract from both the simulation and the execution platform.

Both approaches extend the existing simulation framework with new blocks (actors) that ensure the TDL semantics during the simulation. In Simulink, the tim- ing requirements are encoded in a static E-code representation and enforced by an E-machine, resulting in a low computational overhead. In Ptolemy, TDL actions, such as releasing a task activation or performing a mode switch, are generated dynamically and are represented as DEs. They are enqueued in the event queue of the DE director, which then schedules the appropriate TDL actions at their corre- sponding time instants. This independence of E-code may make experiments with future TDL extensions more straightforward, because testing new features with Simulink potentially requires changing the compiler, the E-code instruction set, and the E-machine.

[6.4 <--- ](6_4.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 6.6](6_6.md)

