[6 <--- ](6.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 8](8.md)

# 7. Progressive Simulation- Based Design for Networked Real-Time Embedded Systems

*Xiaolin* *Hu* *and* *Ehsan* *Azarnasab*

**CONTENTS**

- [7.1](7_1.md)    Introduction 
- [7.2](7_2.md)    PSBD for Networked Real-Time Embedded Systems 
  - 7.2.1    PSBD Overview 
  - 7.2.2    Bifurcated Design Process for Networked Real-Time Embedded Systems 
- [7.3](7_3.md)    Background on CR Design. 
- [7.4](7_4.md)    PSBD of the CR Network 
  - 7.4.1    Design Procedure and Implementation Environment. 
  - 7.4.2    Design of a Single Cognitive Modem 
  - 7.4.3    Design of a CR Network. 
  - 7.4.4    Experiment Results. 
- [7.5](7_5.md)    Conclusions 

## REFERENCES

1.  Li, L., T. Pearce, and G. Wainer. 2003. “Interfacing Real-Time DEVS Models with a DSP Platform.” In *Proceedings of the Industrial Simulation Symposium*, Valencia, Spain.

2.  Upton, J. 1998. *Boeing 777 (AirlinerTech Series)*. 2nd ed. Voyageur Press (MN), vol. 2.

3.  Hu, X. 2010. “From Virtual to Real: A Progressive Simulation-Based Design Framework,” *Discrete-Event Modeling and Simulation: Theory and Applications*, edited by G. A. Wainer, P. J. Mosterman, Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

4.  Hu, X., N. Ganapathy, and B. P. Zeigler. 2005. “Robots in the Loop: Supporting an Incremental Simulation-Based Design Process”. In *IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics*, Hawaii.

5.  Azarnasab, E. and X. Hu. 2007. “An Integrated Multi-Robot Test Bed to Support Incremental Simulation-Based Design.” In *Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on System of Systems Engineering*, San Antonio, TX.

6.  Azarnasab, E. 2007. “Robot-in-the-Loop Simulation to Support Multi-Robot System Development: A Dynamic Team Formation Example.” Master’s thesis, Georgia State University, Department of Computer Science, Atlanta, GA.

7.  Farhang-Boroujeny, B. 2008. *Signal Processing Techniques for Software Radios*. Morrisville, North Carolina: Lulu Publishing House.

8.  Azarnasab, E., X. Hu, P. Amini, and B. Farhang-Boroujeny. 2008. “Progressive Simulation-Based Design: A Case Study Example on Software Defined Radio”. In *Proceedings of the 2008 IEEE Conference on Automation Science and Engineering (IEEE-CASE 2008)*, Washington DC.

9.  Zeigler, B., H. Praehofer, and T. Kim. 2000. *Theory of Modeling and Simulation*. 2nd ed. New York: Academic Press.

10.  Zhang, Ming, Bernard Zeigler, Xiaolin Hu. 2012.“A Formalized Approach for Design of Real-Time Distributed Computer System.” In *Real-Time Simulation Technologies: Principles, Methodologies, and Applications*, edited by K. Popovici, P. J. Mosterman, CRC Press, ISBN 9781439846650.

11.  Zeigler B. P. and H. S. Sarjoughian. 2005. *Introduction to DEVS Modeling and Simulation with JAVA: Developing Component-Based Simulation Models, Resources* [http://www.acims.arizona.edu/SOFTWARE/devsjava_licensed/CBMSManuscript.zip](http://www.acims.arizona.edu/) (last accessed April, 2012) . 

12.  Wainer, G. A. and E. Glinsky. 2004. “Model-Based Development of Embedded Systems with RT-CD++.” In *Proceedings of the WIP Session, IEEE Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium*, Toronto, ON, Canada.

13.  Wainer, G. A., E. Glinsky, and P. MacSween. 2005. *A Model-Driven Technique for Development of Embedded Systems Based on the DEVS Formalism*. Springer-Verlag.

14.  Glinsky, E. and G. A. Wainer. 2004. “Modeling and Simulation of Hardware/Software Systems with CD++.” In *Proceedings of the 36th Conference on Winter Simulation*, Washington DC.

15.  Schulz, S. and J. W. Rozenblit. 2002. “Refinement of Model Specifications in Embedded Systems Design.” In *Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Conference on Engineering of Computer-Based Systems*, 159–66. Sweden: Lund.

16.  Kim, T. G., S. M. Cho, and W. B. Lee. 2001. “DEVS Framework for Systems Development: Unified Specification for Logical Analysis, Performance Evaluation and Implementation.” In *Discrete Event Modeling and Simulation Technologies: A Tapestry of Systems and AI-Based Theories and Methodologies*. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag New York, Inc.

17.  Hu, X. and B. P. Zeigler. 2005. “Model Continuity in the Design of Dynamic Distributed Real-Time Systems.” *IEEE Transactions On Systems, Man And Cybernetics—Part A: Systems And Humans*, 35 (6), 867–78.

18.  Hu, X. and B. P. Zeigler. 2005. “A Simulation-Based Virtual Environment to Study Cooperative Robotic Systems.” *Integrated Computer-Aided Engineering (ICAE)* 12 (4), 353–67.

19.  Brodersen, R., A. Wolisz, D. Cabric, S. Mishra, and D. Willkomm. 2004. *CORVUS: A Cognitive Radio Approach for Usage of Virtual Unlicensed Spectrum*, White paper, Berkeley, Technical Report. [http://bwrc.eecs.berkeley.edu/Research/MCMA/CR_White_](http://bwrc.eecs.berkeley.edu/) [paper_final1.pdf ](http://bwrc.eecs.berkeley.edu/)(last accessed April, 2012).

20.  Shankar, N., C. Cordeiro, and K. Challapali. 2005. “Spectrum Agile Radios: Utilization and Sensing Architectures.” In *First IEEE International Symposium on New Frontiers in Dynamic Spectrum Access Networks (DySPAN)*, 160–9. Baltimore, Maryland.

21.  FCC 2002. *Spectrum Policy Task Force*. ET Docket 02-135.

22.  Haykin, S. 2005. “Cognitive Radio: Brain-Empowered Wireless Communications.”*IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications*.

23.  Amini, P., R. Kempter, and B. Farhang-Boroujeny. 2006. “A Comparison of Alternative Filterbank Multicarrier Methods in Cognitive Radio Systems.” In *Software Defined Radio Technical Conference*, Orlando, FL.

24.  Amini, P., E. Azarnasab, S. Akoum, X. Mao, H. I. Rao, and B. Farhang-Boroujeny. 2007. “Implementation of a Cognitive Radio Modem.” In *Software Defined Radio Technical Conference*, Denver, CO.

25.  Su, H. and X. Zhang. 2008. “Cross-Layer Based Opportunistic MAC Protocols for QoS Provisionings over Cognitive Radio Wireless Networks.” In *IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications*, 26 (1), 118–29.

26.  “Lyrtech SFF SDR Development Platform Technical Specs.” 2007. Lyrtech Inc., Technical Report. http://www.lyrtech.com/ publications/sff_sdr_dev_platform_en.pdf, (last accessed February, 2007).

27.  Azarnasab, E., R.-R. Chen, K. H. Teo, Z. Tao, and B. Farhang-Boroujeny. 2009. “Medium Access Control Signaling for Reliable Spectrum Agile Radios.” In *IEEE Global Telecommunications Conference (GLOBECOM), ISSN: 1930-529X*. 1–5, Honolulu, Hawaii.

28.  Azarnasab, E., P. Amini, and B. Farhang-Boroujeny. 2007. “Hardware in the Loop: A Development Strategy for Software Radio.” In *Software Defined Radio Technical Conference*, Denver, CO.