[7 <--- ](7.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 7.2](7_2.md)

## 7.1. INTRODUCTION

Simulation has long been used to support design and analysis of complex engineering systems. Fast simulations allow designers to flexibly experiment with and analyze different design solutions without implementing the systems in hardware. Real- time simulations support designers to test the real-time features of a system that interacts with the physical world and/or other hardware components. The latter is especially useful for designing real-time embedded systems, such as mobile devices, manufacturing automation sensors/actuators, and the networked software-defined radio (SDR) system presented in this chapter. Design and implementation of these systems have been influenced by the increasing demand of new products and the recent advances in technologies. The complexity and multidisciplinary nature of these systems make analytical modeling and analysis infeasible. However, system engineers must assess a design before proceeding with implementation of an

**181**



**182**                             Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

expensive solution. Although traditional modeling and simulation can help in this goal, its applicability has been limited because of the gap between simulation models and implementation in hardware.

One type of real-time simulation is hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) simulation, which is an advanced technique frequently used in embedded systems’ development [1,2]. A HIL simulation refers to a system in which parts of a pure simulation have been replaced with actual hardware. This is based on the observation that once hardware is added to the loop, unmodeled characteristics can be investigated and controls can be further refined. HIL is typically aimed at developing a single module in a larger system. Although it is a useful technique that can greatly support an engineering design, it does not offer a general methodology that can scale to more complex systems. Systematic design processes and methodologies are necessary for designing complex systems that are characterized as large scale and networked with tight couplings between software and hardware. Motivated by this need, we developed a progressive simulation-based design (PSBD) methodology that goes beyond HIL simulation by gradually adding more hardware to the simulated system in a progressive manner and improving the co-simulated model in each step before continuing [3]. The design process of PSBD starts from all models being simulated on computers, proceeds by bringing real system components into the simulation to replace their virtual counterparts (models), and ends when all components are in their deployed form and the final system is tested in a physical environment. Throughout this process, model continuity is emphasized and the simulation model is continually updated whenever new design details are revealed. Several distributed robotic systems have been developed following the principles of the PSBD methodology [4–6].

This chapter presents the PSBD for networked real-time embedded systems. We give an overview of the PSBD methodology and show a bifurcated design process that implements PSBD for individual embedded devices and the networked embedded system. We then apply the PSBD methodology to the design of a networked SDR system. SDR technology refers to a radio communication system capable of transmitting and receiving different modulated signals across a large frequency spectrum using software programmable hardware [7]. Major components of a SDR board include a digital signal processor (DSP), field-programmable-gate-array (FPGA), and radio frequency (RF) front end that facilitates wireless communication among the nodes. A DSP or a conventional central processor unit computes baseband signal processing and implements the MAC layer for networking. An FPGA is used for fast parallel processing of incoming data and down-sampling the result to a lower sample rate suitable for baseband processing. SDR provides modem designers a great opportunity to build complex modems by programming in software the previously hardware components of the radio. This replacement of hardware by software is in line with the model continuity approach of PSBD, as the individual system components are code modules to be developed and tested along the design process. The advantage of PSBD becomes more explicit when multiple SDR nodes should collaborate to form a network. Hence, the interaction of many complex subsystems should be engineered for best performance of the entire system. We show how PSBD is applied to a single cognitive modem and a cognitive radio (CR) network. This chapter extends the previous work on the PSBD methodology [3] and the case study example on SDR [8].



Progressive Simulation-Based Design                            **183**

 

We aim to show that PSBD is an effective methodology that can be applied to a wide range of networked real-time embedded systems and engineering applications.

The modeling and simulation environment that supports this work is based on Discrete Event System Specification (DEVS) [9,10]. DEVS is a formalism derived from generic dynamic systems theory and has well-defined concepts of coupling of components, hierarchical, modular model construction, and object-oriented substrate supporting repository reuse. DEVS models time explicitly. This makes it convenient to study timeliness, which is an essential property of real-time systems. The DEVSJAVA environment [11] is used in this work to support fast and real-time simulations in the design process. More information about the DEVS formalism can be found in Zeigler et al. [9]. Applying DEVS-based modeling and simulation to system design has been researched in previous work. For example, a DEVS-based model-driven approach for developing embedded real-time systems was presented in Wainer and coworkers [12,13] to improve the quality of a design and to reduce the need for expensive testing cycle. A methodology for developing hybrid hardware/ software systems was presented in Glinsky and Wainer [14], where techniques were developed to enable transition from the simulated models to the actual hardware counterparts and to allow developing models with different levels of abstraction. A stepwise model refinement approach was proposed in Schulz and Rozenblit [15] to support real-time embedded system development. In Kim et al. [16], a DEVS- based unified framework was presented for developing real-time software systems, in which logical analysis, performance evaluation, and implementation can be performed. Our work on PSBD emphasizes a systematic process that progressively transitions a design from models to system realization. We note that although the DEVS simulation environment is used in this work, the presented PSBD methodology is general and can be realized using other modeling and simulation environments.

[7 <--- ](7.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 7.2](7_2.md)