[7.2 <--- ](7_2.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 7.4](7_4.md)

## 7.3. BACKGROUND ON CR DESIGN

The scarcity of unallocated frequency spectrum and the necessity for different radios to coexist in the shared unlicensed bands highlight the importance of the next generation of radios with dynamic spectrum access. Traditionally, spectrum is assigned to legacy devices, also called primary users (PUs). However, licensed frequency bands are rarely used everywhere [19,20] and over time lead to spectrum holes in time and space. To address this underutilization Federal Communications Commission has loosened the regulation to allow secondary users (SUs) to share some previously dedicated bands subject to minimal interference with legacy devices of the band [21]. Based on this definition of coexistence, SUs attempt to dynamically fill the spectrum holes over time and space [20], thus forming a CR [22]. For example, when a TV station (which is a PU of some frequency band) is not broadcasting or is in a location far from any TV broadcasting, SUs can instead use the spectrum in an opportunistic fashion. Spectrum access for first responders in a disaster scenario, where many wireless devices are active, is another application of CR [23].

A typical CR network consists of multiple SUs that coexist with PUs of a shared spectrum. PUs have priority access to the spectrum over SUs, that is, SUs should relinquish the spectrum when PUs begin transmission. The SU network should be designed to utilize more of the available bandwidth subject to minimum interference with the PUs. The hidden terminal problem (when a node is visible from a wireless access point (AP) but not from other nodes communicating with the AP) should be solved to minimize interference. For this purpose, SUs should form a CR network to sense the presence of active PUs and dynamically adapt to a suitable frequency, resulting in little or no interference with PUs. They collaboratively sense the spectrum and decide which part of the spectrum is available to them. Collaborative sensing involves signaling/reporting through a (possibly narrow band) control/ reporting channel. To maximize the bandwidth efficiency of the SU network while minimizing interference with PUs, this signaling should be done in a reliable manner and in a minimum span of time. In addition to this requirement, it is desirable to have a system operating among radios with different modulations and protocols and supplied by various vendors. Coexistence and interoperability are two major design goals for a CR network. SDR technology best satisfies the required flexibility of CR, and thus is often used to implement CR network [24,25]. A SU that is realized on



**188**                             Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

a SDR hardware board is called a cognitive modem. Design of a CR network must design the individual cognitive modems and the CR network as a whole.

The complexity of designing an individual cognitive modem is due to the many functional components and their complicated mutual interactions. These components can be implemented in parallel to expedite the manufacturing process. Parallelism can be achieved by simulating the entire system for a functional component that is being developed. Here the simulation closes the loop of system integration and provides a regression testing environment. In addition, as is common in system engineering design, not all hardware is available at the beginning of the project. Therefore, simulation is necessary to start the design with the partial hardware that is available. The rest of the functional components are provided by simulation. In our project, at first we received only one baseband module of SDR, capable of processing only the DSP algorithms such as polyphase implementation of a filterbank for channel sensing. We tested our sensing algorithm using a simulated fading channel and optimized it to some extent. The high dynamic range of filterbank sensing better detects low power PU; thus, it is less likely to interfere with legacy users. By the time we developed our fixed-point sensing method, we received one RF front end and applied sensing on a physical wireless channel to replace the previously simulated channel. The complexity of designing the CR network lies in the potentially large number of SUs and PUs that influence each other. By simulating the rest of the network before more hardware was available, we were able to test a CR network of many SUs when only one SDR board was available. Below we present how the progressive-based simulation design was applied to the design of both individual cognitive modems and the CR network. In this project, the code running on the hardware board was compiled by the Code Composer Studio (optimization level). The compiled code was then uploaded to the Small Form Factor (SFF) SDR [26] hardware platform provided by Lyrtech and Texas Instruments.

[7.2 <--- ](7_2.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 7.4](7_4.md)