[7.4 <--- ](7_4.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 8](8.md)

## 7.5. CONCLUSIONS

We present a PSBD methodology for designing networked real-time embedded systems. The methodology includes a bifurcated design process that implements PSBD for designing both individual embedded devices and the networked embedded system as a whole. We apply this methodology to the development of a CR network.

A single cognitive modem was first developed in a progressive manner and then the CR network was built in the same fashion. During this process, the MAC layer model was fine-tuned to increase the data rate of CR, while minimizing interference with PUs. Experimental results show that the designed CR system was able to respond dynamically to the changing environment to avoid active PUs on a realtime basis, while continuing the functionality of a wireless radio. The system was presented successfully at the 2007 Smart Radio Challenge [28] held by the SDR forum. This case study example shows the effectiveness of the PSBD methodology for developing complex networked real-time embedded systems.

Gradually including physical system components into a design to replace the simulation models should consider factors such as hardware availability, cost, speed, and required accuracy for a certain application. Strategies can be developed in the future to provide guidelines for including hardware in a stepwise fashion in the PSBD. Characterizing the types of systems that can take advantage of the PSBD methodology is another interesting topic asking for further research.

[7.4 <--- ](7_4.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 8](8.md)