[8.5 <--- ](8_5.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 9](9.md)

## 8.6. CONCLUSIONS

The Validator is tool suite for significantly improved SIL verification and validation of real-time embedded applications. The first prototype was developed with Ptolemy and was originally called the Access Point Event Simulator (APES). Chrona [24]



**216**                                       Real-Time Simulation Technologies

 

developed the Validator as a product out of APES. Chrona’s Validator has evolved to a product version that scales to the simulation of real-world embedded software con- sisting of millions of lines of code. The Validator achieves time-functional simula- tion of application software and execution platform in closed loop with a plant model. The Validator works independently of a specific domain as long as a simulation model for a particular plant is available.

A simulation with the Validator is based on a systematic manner to instrument the application code with execution time information and execution control statements, which enables capturing real-time behavior at a finer and more appropriate time gran- ularity than most of the currently available similar tools. Chrona’s Validator is able to simulate preemption at the highest level of abstraction that still allows for capturing the effect of preemption on data values, avoiding at the same time the slow, detailed simulation achieved by instruction set simulators. Moreover, the Validator can oper- ate in closed loop with plant models simulated by a different tool. Also, Chrona’s Validator enables traversing preemption points during forward and reverse debug- ging of the application. In the Validator, one can start a simulation from a previously saved state. Being implemented entirely in C, the Validator can be easily interfaced or even integrated with existing simulation tools such as MATLAB and Simulink.

[8.5 <--- ](8_5.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 9](9.md)