[8 <--- ](8.md) [   Зміст   ](README.md) [--> 10](10.md)

# 9. Modern Methodology of Electric System Design Using Rapid-Control Prototyping and Hardware-in-the-Loop

*Jean* *Bélanger* *and* *Christian* *Dufour*

- [9.1](9_1.md)    Introduction to Real-Time Simulation 
  - 9.1.1    Timing and Constraints 
  - 9.1.2    Analysis of Simulator Bandwidth Requirements. 
  - 9.1.3    Rapid Control Prototyping 
  - 9.1.4    Hardware-in-the-Loop 
  - 9.1.5    Software-in-the-Loop. 
- [9.2](9_2.md)    Real-Time Simulator Technology 
- [9.3](9_3.md)    Model-Based Design Using Real-Time Simulation. 
  - 9.3.1    Model-Based Design. 
  - 9.3.2    Interaction with the Model. 
- [9.4](9_4.md)    Application Examples. 
  - 9.4.1    Power Generation Applications. 
  - 9.4.2    Automotive Applications 
  - 9.4.3    All-Electric Ships and Electric Train Networks 
  - 9.4.4    Aerospace 
  - 9.4.5    Electric Drive and Motor Development and Testing. 
  - 9.4.6    Mechatronics: Robotics and Industrial Automation 
  - 9.4.7    Education: University Research and Development 
  - 9.4.8    Emerging Applications. 

## REFERENCES

1.  *The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language*. 2000. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company.

2.  Dommel, H. W. 1969. “Digital Computer Solution of Electromagnetic Transients in Single- and Multiphase Networks.” *IEEE Transactions on Power Apparatus and Systems*, vol. PAS-88.388–99.

3. Sanchez-Gasca, J. J., R. D. Aquila, W. W. Price, and J. J. Paserba. 1995. “Variable Time- Step, Implicit Integration for Extended-Term Power System Dynamic Simulation.” In *Proceedings of the Power Industry Computer Application Conference 1995*, 7–12 May, pp. 183–89. Salt Lake City, UT.

4.  Crosbie, R. 2012. “Real-Time Simulation Using Hybrid Models.” In *Real-Time Simulation* *Technologies: Principles, Methodologies, and Applications*, edited by Katalin Popovici, Pieter J. Mosterman. CRC Press. ISBN 9781439846650.

5.  Dufour, C., J. Mahseredjian, and J. Bélanger. 2011. “A Combined State-Space Nodal Method for the Simulation of Power System Transients.” *IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery* 26 (2): 928–35.

6.  Marti J. R. and J. Lin. 1989. “Suppression of Numerical Oscillations in the EMTP Power Systems.” *IEEE Transactions on Power Systems* 4: 739–47.

7.  Asplung G., et al. 1997. “DC Transmission Based on Voltage Source Converters.” In*CIGRE SC-14 Colloquium*. Johannesburg.

8.  Terwiesch, P., T. Keller, and E. Scheiben. 1999. “Rail Vehicle Control System Integration Testing Using Digital Hardware-in-the-Loop Simulation.” *IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology* 7 (3), May 1999.

9.  Noda, T., K. Takenaka, and T. Inoue. 2009. “Numerical Integration by the 2-Stage Diagonally Implicit Runge–Kutta Method for Electromagnetic Transient Simulations.” *IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery* 24: 390–99.

10.  Shu, Y., H. Li, and Q. Wu. 2008. “Expansion Application of dSPACE for HILS.” In *IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics*, *ISIE 2008*, 2231–35.

11.  Rabbath, C. A., M. Abdoune, and J. Belanger. 2000. “Effective Real-Time Simulations of Event-Based Systems.” In *2000: Winter Simulation Conference Proceedings*, Vol. 1, 232–38. Orlando.

12.  Kaddouri, A., B. Khodabakhchian, L.-A. Dessaint, R. Champagne, and L. Snider. July 1999. “A New Generation of Simulation Tools for Electric Drives and Power Electronics.” In *Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Power Electronics and Drive Systems (PEDS ‘99)*, vol. 1, 348–54. Hong Kong.

13.  Faruque, M. O., V. Dinavahi, M. Sloderbeck, and M. Steurer. April 2009. “Geographically Distributed Thermo-Electric Co-simulation of All-Electric Ship.” In *IEEE Electric Ship Technologies Symposium (ESTS 2009)*, 36–43. Baltimore, MD.

14.  Bednar, R. and R. E. Crosbie. 2007. “Stability of Multi-Rate Simulation Algorithms.” In *Proceedings of the 2007 Summer Computer Simulation Conference*, 189–94. San Diego.

15.  Fang, R., W. Jiang, J. Khan, and R. Dougal. 2009. “System-Level Thermal Modeling and Co-simulation with Hybrid Power System for Future All Electric Ship.” In *IEEE Electric Ship Technologies Symposium (ESTS 2009)*, 547–53. Baltimore, MD.

16.  Hollman, J. A. and J. R. Marti. 2008. “Real Time Network Simulation with PC-Cluster.” *IEEE Transactions on Power Systems* 18 (2): 563–69.

17.  Jin, H. 1997. “Behavior-Mode Simulation of Power Electronic Circuits.” *IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery* 12 (3).

18.  Rath, G. 2012. “Simulation for Operator Training in Production Machinery.” In *Real- Time Simulation Technologies: Principles, Methodologies, and Applications*, edited by Katalin Popovici, Pieter J. Mosterman. CRC Press. ISBN 9781439846650.

19.  Şahin, S., Y. İşler, and C. Guzelis. 2012. “A Real Time Simulation Platform for Controller Design, Test and Redesign.” In *Real-Time Simulation Technologies: Principles,* *Methodologies, and Applications*, edited by Katalin Popovici, Pieter J. Mosterman. CRC Press. ISBN 9781439846650.

20.  Scharpf, J., R. Hoepler, and J. Hillyard. 2012. “Real Time Simulation in the Automotive Industry.” In *Real-Time Simulation Technologies: Principles, Methodologies, and Applications*, edited by Katalin Popovici, Pieter J. Mosterman. CRC Press. ISBN 9781439846650.

21.  Batteh, J., M. M. Tiller, and D. Winkler. 2012. “Modelica as a Platform for Real-Time Simulations.” In *Real-Time Simulation Technologies: Principles, Methodologies, and Applications*, edited by Katalin Popovici, Pieter J. Mosterman. CRC Press. ISBN 9781439846650.

22.  Su, H. T., K. W. Chan, and L. A. Snider. 2008. “Hybrid Simulation of Large Electrical Networks with Asymmetrical Fault Modeling.” *International Journal of Modeling and Simulation* 28 (2): 124–31.

23.  Kuffel, R., J. Giesbrecht, T. Maguire, R. P. Wierckx, and P. McLaren. 1995. “RTDS: A Fully Digital Power System Simulator Operating in Real Time.” In *First International Conference on Digital Power System Simulators (ICDS ‘95)*, April 5–7, 1995, pp. 19–24. College Station, Texas, USA.

24.  Do, V. Q., J.-C. Soumagne, G. Sybille, G. Turmel, P. Giroux, G. Cloutier, and S. Poulin. 1999. “Hypersim, an Integrated Real-Time Simulator for Power Networks and Control Systems.” ICDS’99, 1–6. Vasteras, Sweden.

25.  Forsyth, P. and R. Kuffel. “Utility Applications of a RTDS® Simulator.” In *2007 International Power Engineering Conference, (IPEC2007)*, December 3–6, 2007, 112–17. Singapore.

26.  Ramanathan, R. M. Pogo Linux. [http://www.pcper.com/reviews/Processors/Intel-Shows-](http://www.pcper.com/) 48-core-x86-Processor-Single-chip-Cloud-Computer?aid=825.

27.  Bélanger, J., V. Lapointe, C. Dufour, and L. Schoen. 2007. “eMEGAsim: An Open High-Performance Distributed Real-Time Power Grid Simulator. Architecture and Specification.” *Presented at the International Conference on Power Systems (ICPS’07)*, December 12–4, 2007. Bangalore, India.

28.  Hugh H. T. Liu. 2012. “Interactive Flight Control System Development and Validation with Real-Time Simulation.” In *Real-Time Simulation Technologies: Principles, Methodologies, and Applications*, edited by Katalin Popovici, Pieter J. Mosterman. CRC Press. ISBN 9781439846650.

29.  Matar, M. and R. Iravani. 2010. “FPGA Implementation of the Power Electronic Converter Model for Real-Time Simulation of Electromagnetic Transients.” *IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery* 25 (2): 852–60.

30.  Dufour, C., S. Abourida, and J. Bélanger. 2006. “InfiniBand-Based Real-Time Simulation of HVDC, STATCOM and SVC Devices with Custom-off-the-Shelf PCs and FPGAs.” In *Proceedings of 2006 IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics*, 2025–29. Montreal, Canada.

31.  Auger, D. 2008. “Programmable Hardware Systems Using Model-Based Design.” In *2008 IET and Electronics Weekly Conference on Programmable Hardware Systems*, 1–12. London.

32.  Sybille, G. and H. Le-Huy. 2000. “Digital Simulation of Power Systems and Power Electronics Using the MATLAB/Simulink Power System Blockset.” In *IEEE Power Engineering Society Winter Meeting, 2000*, Vol. 4, 2973–81. Singapore.

33.  Perez, S. G. A., M. S. Sachdev, and T. S. Sidhu. 2005. “Modeling Relays for Use in Power System Protection Studies.” In *the 2005 Canadian Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering*, 1–4 May 2005, 566–69. Saskatoon, SK, Canada.

34.  Hanselmann, H., U. Kiffmeier, L. Koster, M. Meyer, and A. Rukgauer. 1999. “Production Quality Code Generation from Simulink Block Diagrams.” In *Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE International Symposium on Computer Aided Control System Design, 1999*, 213–18. Kohala Coast, Hawaii, USA.

35.  Sadasiva, I., F. Flinders, and W. Oghanna. 1997. “A Graphical Based Automatic Real Time Code Generator for Power Electronic Control Applications.” In *Proceedings of the IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics (ISIE ‘97)*, Vol. 3, pp. 942–47. Guimaraes, Portugal.

36.  Liu, Y., et al. 2009. “Controller Hardware-in-the-Loop Validation for a 10 MVA ETO- Based STATCOM for Wind Farm Application.” In *IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE’09)*, 1398–1403. San-José, CA.

37.  Etxeberria-Otadui, I., V. Manzo, S. Bacha, and F. Baltes. 2002. “Generalized Average Modelling of FACTS for Real Time Simulation in ARENE.” In *IEEE 28th Annual Conference of the Industrial Electronics Society (IECON 02)*, Vol. 2. 864–69.

38.  Zander, J., I. Schieferdecker, and P. J. Mosterman, eds.2011. *Model-Based Testing for Embedded Systems*. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press. ISBN 9781439818459.

39.  Paquin, J. N., J. Bélanger, L. A. Snider, C. Pirolli, and W. Li. 2009. “Monte-Carlo Study on a Large-Scale Power System Model in Real-Time Using eMEGAsim.” In *IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and Exposition (ECCE’09)*, pp. 3194–3202. San-José, CA. 

40.  Paquin, J. N., W. Li, J. Belanger, L. Schoen, I. Peres, C. Olariu, and H. Kohmann. 2009. “A Modern and Open Real-Time Digital Simulator of All-Electric Ships with a Multi-Platform Co-simulation Approach.” In *Proceedings of the 2009 Electric Ship Technologies Symposium (ESTS 2009)*, April 20–22, 2009, 28–35. Baltimore, MD.

41.  Paquin, J. N., J. Moyen, G. Dumur, and V. Lapointe. 2007. “Real-Time and Off-Line Simulation of a Detailed Wind Farm Model Connected to a Multi-Bus Network.” In *IEEE Canada Electrical Power Conference 2007*, October 25–26, 2007. Montreal, QC.

42.  Paquin, J. N., C. Dufour, and J. Bélanger. 2008. “A Hardware-In-the-Loop Simulation Platform for Prototyping and Testing of Wind Generator Controllers.” In *2008 CIGRE Conference on Power Systems*, October 19–21, 2008. Winnipeg, Canada.

43.  Dufour, C., T. K. Das, and S. Akella. 2003. “Real Time Simulation of Proton Exchange Membrane Fuel Cell Hybrid Vehicle.” In *Proceedings of 2003 Global Powertrain Congress*, Ann Arbor, MI.

44.  Dufour, C., T. Ishikawa, S. Abourida, and J. Belanger. 2007. “Modern Hardware-in-the- Loop Simulation Technology for Fuel Cell Hybrid Electric Vehicles.” In *IEEE Vehicle Power and Propulsion Conference (VPPC 2007)*, September 9–12, 2007, 432–39. Arlington, TX.

45.  Dufour, C., J. Bélanger, T. Ishikawa, and K. Uemura. 2005. “Advances in Real-Time Simulation of Fuel Cell Hybrid Electric Vehicles.” In *Proceedings of the 21st Electric Vehicle Symposium (EVS-21)*, April 2–6, 2005. Monte Carlo, Monaco.

46.  Dufour, C., G. Dumur, J.-N. Paquin, and J. Belanger. 2008. “A Multi-Core PC-Based Simulator for the Hardware-in-the-Loop Testing of Modern Train and Ship Traction Systems.” In *the 13th Power Electronics and Motion Control Conference (EPE-PEMC 2008)*, September 1–3, 2008, 1475–80. Poznan, Poland.

47.  Sudhoff, S.D., S. Pekarek, B. Kuhn, S. Glover, J. Sauer, and D. Delisle. 2002. “Naval Combat Survivability Testbeds for Investigation of Issues in Shipboard Power Electronics Based Power and Propulsion System.” In *IEEE Power Engineering Society Summer Meeting*, July 21–25, 2002, Vol. 1, 347–50. ISBN 0-7803-7518-1.

48.  Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics. 1992. “Software Considerations in Airborne Systems and Equipment Certification.” Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics Standard DO-178B.

49.  Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics. 2000. “Design Assurance Guidance for Airborne Electronic Hardware.” Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics Standard DO-254.

50.  Bélanger, J., H. Blanchette, and C. Dufour. 2008. “Very-High Speed Control of an FPGA-Based Finite-Element-Analysis Permanent Magnet Synchronous Virtual Motor Drive System.” In *IEEE 34th Annual Conference of Industrial Electronics (IECON 2008)*, November 10–13, 2008, 2411–16. Orlando, FL.

51.  Harakawa, M., H. Yamasaki, T. Nagano, S. Abourida, C. Dufour, and J. Belanger. 2005. “Real-Time Simulation of a Complete PMSM Drive at 10 μs Time Step.” *Presented at the International Power Electronics Conference, 2005 (IPEC 2005)*. Niigata, Japan.

52.  Dufour, C., C. Andrade, and J. Bélanger. 2010. “Real-Time Simulation Technologies in Education: a Link to Modern Engineering Methods and Practices.” In *Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Engineering and Technology Education, (INTERTECH-2010)*, March 7–10, 2010. Ilhéus, Bahia, Brazil.

53.  Min, W., S. Jin-Hua, Z. Gui-Xiu, and Y. Ohyama. 2008. “Internet-Based Teaching and Experiment System for Control Engineering Course.” *IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics* 55 (6).

54.  Huselstein, J.-J., P. Enrici, and T. Martire. 2006. “Interactive Simulations of Power Electronics Converters.” In *12th International Power Electronics and Motion Control Conference (EPE-PEMC 2006)*, August 30–September 1, 2006, 1721–26. Portoroz, Slovenia.